While very few people are likely to recognize this for what it is, some will. If you are looking for a slick marketing package, you will not find it here. We are about simple and fundamental knowledge leading to greater knowledge. This is the organizational structure of Terran Society. Truth is, at this time, most people will not agree to the Rights of the People and the Constitution thus will not qualify for membership.

To inquire or comment, please email to First Executive at First Executive 'first.executive@yandex.com'

Terran Society Councils of Elders
Elders will serve a three year term with one-third (1/3) up for election on an annual cycle.

There are no term limits.

Criteria to serve on the Regional Council of Elders include compassion and love for children and preferably at least 50 years of age.

The Terran Society Council's of Elders are primary role is to peacefully resolve minor disputes or conflicts They shall maintain a safe haven for a child or other family member to go to temporarily in a crisis. The Council's operational goal is healing the problem and restoring the family unit. This may include providing counsel and guidance to families in need.

As the Regional Council of Elders’ primary role is to peacefully resolve family and child problem situations.

They shall maintain a safe haven for a child or other family member to go to temporarily in a crisis. The Council's operational goal is healing the problem and restoring the family unit. This may include providing counsel and guidance to families in need.

The Regional Council of Elders is responsible for the care of orphaned children and adoption. Adoption records shall remain open. Fee or payment of any kind is not allowed in the matter of adoption.

The Regional Council of Elders shall help People who are struggling to adapt to Terran Society.

The Council of Elders may hear issues people may wish to bring to them and the Council is willing to consider. Issues not resolved may escalate to the Court System, the Legislature or the Sheriff.

Councils of Elders
Elders will serve a three year term with one-third (1/3) up for election on an annual cycle.

There are no term limits.

Criteria to serve on the Regional Council of Elders include compassion and love for children.

The Regional Council of Elders’ primary role is to peacefully resolve family and child problem situations. They shall maintain a safe haven for a child or other family member to go to temporarily in a crisis. The Council's operational goal is healing the problem and restoring the family unit. This may include providing counsel and guidance to families in need.

The Regional Council of Elders is responsible for the care of orphaned children and adoption. Adoption records shall remain open. Fee or payment of any kind is not allowed in the matter of adoption.

The Regional Council of Elders shall help People who are struggling to adapt to Terran Society.

The Regional Council of Elders may hear issues people may wish to bring to them and the Council is willing to consider. Issues not resolved may escalate to the Court System, the Legislature or the Sheriff.

Jurisdictional boundaries, number of elected Elders per population, budget allocation and other details shall be determined by the Regional Legislature and the legislative process. Initially district size shall be 5,000 to 21,000 people. Each Council of Elder shall have a minimum of three seats. An additional seat is added for each additional three thousand people after 9,000.

It is preferable for candidates to be at least 55 years of age.