
Global Challenges Foundation

Global Challenges Prize 2017: A New Shape
0
days and
13
hours left to submit an entry
(Today at 11:59 PM UTC +0)

General information
Title of entry:  A New Planetary Social Contract
Language in which the entry is written:  English
Submitting organisation:  Terran Society Cooperative Association
Type of organisation:  Other
Adress:  141 Warwick Street Southeast
Postalcode:  55414
City:  Minneapolis
Country:  United States
Corporate identification number:  4684579 Minnesota Tax Id

Gerard Carton
arthur.dent1024@yandex.com
Corresping author




1. Abstract

Abstract

Design Summary:    

Defines a new social contract between Individuals, Society and the Natural World.

A planetary wide system designed to achieve the goal of practically and efficiently meeting the basic needs of each member of society. These are clean food, water, air, a place to live, personal safety, privacy, access to information, travel and health care. This is the foundation on which a new sustainable Civilization shall be built.

Automation and improved efficiency will reduce the number of people and time needed to meet everyones basic needs. 

Each Person is an owner in the Public Trust.

Private property is a right, but ownership of air, water or land is not valid. This world pre-exists the human race and we are caretakers of it. Mineral and water resources are to be managed as public resources.    

Each member has one vote, but many opportunities to use it.

All services provided are for all members and regions equally.

What each individual gets from this is:

  1)  An equitable and just system for management of Public Services and the Public Trust.

  2)  Peaceful and just dispute resolution.

  3)  A Common Defense to protect the Rights of the People and our Civilization.

Based on Guiding Principles established to provide guidelines for a Constitutional Representative Republic with Rights of the People defined up front. Living with respect for these Rights constitutes a practical code of conduct for peaceful coexistence. Establishing and protecting these rights will enable a high quality of life.    

A Constitutional Republic with local Councils of Elders. Includes Executive, Legislative, Court System and Fair Witness branches.

Decentralized structure providing authoritative roles delegated responsibility for effectiveness, yet preventing undue concentrations of power.     

There are three tiers in this system:

Local:  A Council of Elders to serve rural communities and districts within larger metropolitan areas.

Regional:  Consists of a Regional Council of the People, a Five Division Executive, Fair Witness and Court System Branches.  The Executive division offices are Treasury, Administration, Ambassador, Sheriff, Environmental Guardian.

Planetary:  Consists of the Planetary Council of the People, Council of the Regions, Five Division Executive and Planetary Defense Force.


Institutions:

There are two kinds of institutions:

Those defined in the Constitution, i.e. within the Executive, Legislative, Court System and Fair Witness branches.

Independent Public Service Cooperatives (PSC) defined by Legislation.

Demand for public utilities and facilities is met with independently chartered public cooperatives with local control of management. For example, a metropolitan public transit system, an airport or port facility would be structured as a PSC as defined by legislative process.

Public Service Cooperative staff may see managerial and financial information and have a vote for a set percentage of seats on the Board of Directors.

The individuals and organizations which use the services of the PSC shall also have a vote for a set percentage of the Board of Directors.


Regulations:

All resource extraction and industry with environmental impact shall be subject to Regulations defining Environmental Standards.

Regulatory Standards regarding personal safety, especially in work and play environments shall be established.

Financial reporting of all public cooperatives and taxable commerce entities will be subject to approved Regulations.


Regulations - Professional Standards and Accreditation:

Simple organizational templates shall be designed for professional guilds and industry to form open standards bodies.


Decision-Making Paths:

The base of power is the informed individual. This system is decentralized by design with parallel organizations across regions with local control.

The Executive branch is organized into five Divisions, each lead by an elected office and independently accountable. These Division Offices form the Executive Council.

The Legislative is based on representation and will grow or shrink with the population.

The Court System has a Facilitator, but a Jury of the People makes the decisions. 


Control Mechanisms:

There are checks and balances designed into the Constitution's organizational structure and processes.  

The separation of powers across branches works to keep any one aspect or group from avoiding accountability when Rights of the People are violated with the appearance of legitimate authority.  

Several processes are defined to protect against abuse of authority.

Having an executive, legislative and court system branch will fail without an independent record keeping and reporting mechanism. Therefore, a Fair Witness branch composed of individuals highly trained to be fair, objective observers and records keepers is established.  

Certified Fair Witnesses shall have access to the other three branches and be present in all meetings.

The Fair Witness branch shall maintain public access libraries and publish information.  

Within the Planetary and Regional Executive branches, a division is headed by an elected Sheriff.

The Court System process itself is a control mechanism and the office of Guarantor of Rights is active enforcement.

Each local Council of Elders has limited authority to resolve disputes before they escalate to the Court System or Sheriff.

The election process itself provides a public forum for debate and eliminates political money and the need for party affiliation.

Resource allocation for the Defense Force is controlled by the Planetary Legislature.

Public Service Cooperatives are controlled by an elected Board of Directors.

Open Public Records will serve to reduce fraud, waste and abuse.

There are provisions for recall and reprimand of elected and public officials.

There are protected processed for reporting wrong doing within the public sector.

Financial and organization information will be available to each member to ensure an informed vote.

How Key Individuals and Decision Making bodies are to be appointed:

Key Offices in the Executive, Legislative and Court System are determined by election process.

Key Executive Council appointments must be Approved by the Legislature.

Elected Boards of Directors of Public Service Cooperatives shall appoint operational leadership roles.




2. Description of the Model

Organizational Overview

This is a high level organizational overview defining a Local, Regional and Planetary system for equitable and just management of the Public Trust, Public Services & Natural World. Details are important but require many more words thus are outside the scope of this contest. This structure is intended to be agreeable to everyone and to promote harmony, peace and prosperity.

This organizational structure is a Planetary Constitutional Republic with Individual Rights stated and guaranteed up front. To achieve this, Guiding Principles are determined for general guidance. The Rights of the People are established because anything less is just not acceptable. A Constitution defining a complete system with specific organizational structures, processes, roles and responsibilities shall be established.

The primary organizational unit is a Region.  A Region shall not exceed 20 to 25 million in population but may be considerably less in low population density areas.  Large cities effectively become their own Region.

The Regional managerial system is organized into four branches with leadership roles organized in balanced relationships.  There is a Legislature, Court System, Five Department Executive with an Administrator, Treasurer, Sheriff, Ambassador and Environmental Guardian and Fair Witness branch.

Each Region shall have an administrative center with local responsibility and accountability.

Making up each Region are Regional Districts with an elected Council of Elders. Each Regional District shall not exceed 20,000 People.

The Planetary level of organization has an Executive branch with directly elected offices and two Legislative assemblies, a Planetary Council of the People and a Council of the Regions.

Also at the Planetary level, a unified Military Defense Force to provide for a common defense from any conceivable threat.

The Fair Witness branch spans the whole system and has a Planetary Council and Regional Councils to manage their crucial role.



Guiding Principles

1)    Operations need to be open, transparent and accessible to the People, as the base of power is the informed individual.

2)    Services and systems must be designed, developed and administered for the benefit of all People.

3)    As caretakers in this wonderful world shared with many other beings, air, water and land cannot be owned by anyone.

4)    Services provided to Regions must be administered equally per Region.

5)    Permanent structures & facilities shall be designed to last for future generations, have minimal maintenance and be as energy independent and efficient as is practical.

6)    Each community and region should be self-sufficient in a sustainable way for meeting their basic needs.

7)    A Person may be on the staff of only one branch of Planetary / Regional Management or the Defense Force at a time.

8)    Voting rights and benefits shall not be revoked as punishment or penalty. 



Rights of the People    

We are endowed by our Creator with certain in-alienable Rights, among these are Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness. These Rights are not to be violated by institutions, organizations or individuals. Our duty is to protect these Rights.

01  Each Person is a unique individual, therefore all People have a Right to their own beliefs, thoughts emotions and the free expression thereof through speech, song, writing or other art of self expression, including in the Public Space. However, a Person can be held accountable if their speech or self expression directly causes physical harm or violates the Rights of another person.

02  While respecting the Rights of others, People have the right to an honorable death as they deem appropriate.

03  People retain the Right to their body and therefore control of the consumption and use of foods and medicines. This includes the right to be free of forced medication, implantation, injection, medical procedure, poison or otherwise be harmed. Children have the Right to not be sexually mutilated.

04  A pregnant woman has the right to determine the course of her own pregnancy.

05  People have the Right to adorn, dress and present themselves as they choose.

06  As Humans, we have a symbiotic relationship with the cannabis plant, the only known plant which by itself can sustain Human life and civilization. People have the right to possess, grow, use and have access to cannabis.

07  As Humans we share a relationship with all life of which our Biosphere is composed and have a natural right to responsibly use, cultivate and/or farm animals, plants, fungi, algae and such.

08  People have the Right to be free of harmful substances added to food, water, air and soil, and other environmental pollution.

09  People have the Right to a healthy and safe living, working and playing environment as is practical. But they may choose to take risks upon themselves or participate in activities which cannot be free of danger or potential harm.

10  People have the Right to peaceably assemble.

11  People have a Right to access and/or use Public Space without fee and managed use must be by a fair and open system.

12  People have the Right to Travel as is practical. Public roads and public forms of transportation must be available to all.

13  People have the right to be secure in their person, home, papers, thoughts, digital media, effects and private communications, against unreasonable search and/or seizure.

14  People have a Right to self defense and to defend others if necessary. Therefore People have the right to keep and bear arms and learn martial arts. This is does not include the use of excessive force. Weapons of mass destruction, need to be under secure military control.

15  People have the right to be quiet and to not accuse themselves. Forced confession and attempted forced confession is forbidden.

16  A Person shall be free from double jeopardy. There shall not be a hearing held twice for the same offense. A momentary single act cannot result in multiple criminal charges.

17  A Person may be accused and brought to trial only for acts which have violated the Rights of another Person, an actual injured party.

18  Parents have joint custody of their children, even in a separation, unless they agree to another arrangement between themselves or through a mediator.

19  People are not property. Involuntary servitude, including taxation of an individuals labor or services rendered is prohibited.

20  Chromosomes, genes and genetically engineered life forms are not private intellectual property and may not be patented.

21  A legally defined organization of people is not a person and cannot have legal standing as a person.

22  People have the Right to contract freely with others as long as the enforcement of that contract or agreement does not result in harm to the individual. Therefore, People have the Right to terminate their consent to a contract or agreement.

23    People have the Right to information regarding organizational structure, roles and responsibilities from an organization they are on the staff of and public service cooperatives.

24  People have the right to access data and information collected or stored about themselves by any person, group or organization. This includes the right to review, challenge and amend such information.

25  No group or organization may be granted powers which result in the violation of the Rights of the People.

26    No single law created by any elected legislature can be too long or complex. If it takes more than 20 minutes for a person of average reading ability to read and/or is not in clear, understandable language, that law is null and void.

27  Any person elected or appointed to office who violates this Bill of Rights is subject to recall and an election held for their office or legislative seat as soon as is practical.

28  Truthful authorship of any pending law or treaty has to be made public before any binding vote for approval can take place.

29  No law or treaty can be valid which has not been made public and read aloud in the legislature with a quorum present, at least three times, and these readings spaced apart in time at least one day, before being voted on for approval.

30  No treaty or binding agreement with an outside party may be made which violates these Rights.

31  This defining of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the People.




Organizational Outline for a Planetary Constitution        

From the perspective of an individual Person, there are three tiers with direct and indirect representation. The first tier is Regional District, the second tier is Region and the third tier is Planetary.

Many of the important roles are held by elected officials. A fair election process is critical to the proper and just function of this model.


Election Process

The election process shall be transparent with a genuine public forum where candidates can present, discuss, debate and be interviewed with public question and answer sessions. Party affiliation is not necessary.

Candidates must disclose their organizational membership from a minimum of seven years prior to present and any oaths they are bound to, at the beginning of the process.

The standard election cycle is three years. When a special election is held to fill a vacant seat, that seat is up for election on the next cycle.  Unless specified otherwise, elected offices are for three year terms, limited to three terms or ten years.

Election day will be a Planet-wide day off, excepting essential services, to help enable everyone to vote.

A paper or other physical ballot has to be verified by the voter as correct, counted and kept on file for at least 10 years, which is longer than three elections cycles.

The details of the election process shall be established via the Planetary Legislative process for unified fairness and facilitated by the relevant Administrative Department.


Regional District

Each Regional District is the boundary for an elected Council of Elders.  The boundary is designated by the Regional Council of the People and approved by the Regional Executive Council. The population should not exceed 20,000 People.  


District Council of Elders        

With seven or nine elected Elder seats per Council, everyone who has lived in the District for a time is likely to know an Elder.        

Facilities are maintained by the Regional Administrator.        

Each Regional District shall be allocated equally in the Regional budget.        

Forbidden to tax or charge a service fee.  Donations may be made to a central account which disburses equally to Districts within the Region.        

Assists People who need help dealing with the system or accessing benefits.        

If parties to a dispute agree to a hearing at the District Council of Elders and the Council agrees to hear their case, the dispute may be resolved before it escalates to involve a Sheriff or the Court System.    

Responsible for the wellbeing of orphans and a temporary safe haven for children in distress.    

Where minor children are brought for serious antisocial misdeeds and violations of others Rights.    

Also there to enable People who are struggling or need help dealing with the system.    

Essentially, the front line of public service for respected, older, responsible adults.        

Decentralized from a centrally run, hierarchical Regional bureaucracy used to administer services.    


Region

Regional boundaries are set through the Planetary Legislative process by which Regions are Chartered.

Based on a population not to exceed 20 to 25 million People. Very large population centers become their own Region with the full range of organization structures and services. Many regions may keep their current name.

Regions are locally accountable but are not autonomous.

Responsible for defining Regional District borders and establishing the Councils of Elders.    


Each Region has the same core organizational structure and is organized into four Branches, each with different roles and responsibilities.  

The Executive branch consists of five operationally different departments headed by an elected office.  The five offices form the Executive Council.

The Legislative branch consists of the Council of the People with a set number of directly elected seats based on population.

The Court System branch consists of Major, Minor and Public Arbitration Courts.  

The Major and Minor Courts have a Facilitator, a Guarantor of Rights and a Jury, but not a Judge.

The Fair Witness branch is parallel to the whole system and is not politically accountable.  Its managerial structure has full facilities and services at the Planetary level and for each Region.


Regional Legislative branch    

Regional Council of the People.    

Each Regional District has one seat on the Regional Council of the People.  This is the representative legislative body where laws are passed regarding budget, taxation, crime, commerce, public services, chartered cooperatives, etc.    

The Council Seats are up for election every three years.        


Duties and Responsibilities:        

  Approve a Regional budget on a one, two or three year cycle.        

  To work with the Executive Committee in developing standard organizational models for different types of chartered Public Service Cooperatives.        

  Charter and fund into existence approved private and public service cooperatives.       

  Hold public investigative hearings as needed.      

  Legislate environmental protection standards for use of natural resources.         

  Allocate land and water resources for residential, industrial and agricultural use with fairness and stability and create objective standards for their allocation.                

  Impeach any elected member of the Regional Executive, Court System or Fair Witness Branch for cause and remove them from office.                

  Establish objective rules for the Administrator to manage Contributed Service.                

  Override an Executive Committee veto with at three fourths majority.        

  Define what constitutes a major or minor violation and specify appropriate maximum and minimum penalties.


Regional Executive branch    

Composed of five Departments, each lead by an elected office accountable to the People:            

Administration  -  Office of Regional Administrator                

Treasury -  Office of Regional Treasurer                

Sheriff -  Office of Regional Sheriff                

Embassy -  Office of Regional Ambassador                

Environmental Guardian -  Office of Regional Environmental Guardian    


Regional Executive Council    


Consists of the five Department heads with the leadership changing on a rotational basis.         

Shall hold frequent and regular meetings, especially when the legislature is in session. 

Executive Committee meetings require the presence of a Certified Fair Witness.        


Responsibilities include:        

  Publish periodic status reports on Executive branch operations.                

  Pro-actively work together to achieve the key objective of ensuring everyone's basic needs are met.                

  Maintain professional staff and quality standards.                

  Work together in developing budget proposals, designing organizational templates and implementing Chartered Cooperatives.        

  Report to and maintain liaison with the Regional Council of the People.                

  Approve or veto legislation with a majority vote.            


Regional Administrator    

Administrator of the Regional Government's buildings, facilities, operations and related staffing.        

Prepares private cooperative and public service cooperative organizational templates for approval by the Regional Council of the People.        

Assist People and organizations in converting to, applying for and launching approved cooperatives.        


Responsible for:            


A clean, well managed election process, including a public forum for debate.         

Ensures equitable distribution of benefits and services.            

Infrastructure services and systems such as communications and networking.                

Facilitate the creation of Public Service Cooperatives to meet specific needs, such as air and sea ports and water, communications and/or electrical utilities.                    

Assuring proper medical facilities and resources are available.                

Maintain Fire Stations and conduct Fire Safety inspections and enforcement.        


Regional Treasurer    

Prepares budget proposals for legislative approval.        

Maintains a benefits account for each person residing in the Region.    

Administers taxation and collection as defined by legislation for the Regional Treasury. 

Appoints the five member Board of Directors of the Regional Bank, subject to legislative approval.        

Assists in the conversion / creation of cooperatives from the financial side.        

Has authority and duty to audit, Regional management, registered businesses and cooperatives.    

Shall conduct a forensic audit as part of a criminal investigation when required.    


Regional Ambassador    

Promotes commerce, tourism and other economic development.        

Assists travelers in far away Regions and helps residents vote when away from home.    

Promotes a positive and unifying image of the Region.        

Promotes economic development and inter-regional trade.    


Regional Sheriff

Responsible for protecting the of the Rights of the People.        

Officers on duty shall be physically fit, trained in self defense be able to safely dis-arm or subdue a violent person without the use of lethal force.    

Conducts criminal investigations and maintains a forensic laboratory.    

Accessibility to the People within the Region to receive crime reports and emergency calls.    

Shall maintain the ability to respond to emergency calls of all types, including rescue.    

Coordinates with the Planetary Sheriff in matters involving inter-regional crime.    

Shall provide protection, if necessary, to Members who report official misconduct or serious crime.    


Regional Environmental Guardian    

Regional environmental protection and ecosystem restoration operations.             

Pro-actively test for pollution and environmental damage. 

Consolidate environmental monitoring data collected within the Region and pass reports on to the Planetary Environmental Guardian.        

Develop and evaluate techniques, methods and technology.    

Toxic industrial byproducts shall be rendered stable or broken down to safe components before release into the natural environment.    


Extraction of natural resources must conform to standards which are respectful of life but objectively determined through the legislative process.    

Receive and review environmental concern reports from Persons which may result in further investigation.    

Initiate and Conduct environmental investigations to determine the cause of the environmental problem. If appropriate, determine a plan for repair and restoration. Implement that plan.    

First point of dispute resolution regarding resources within the Region.    

Coordinate regional resources based on legislation and objective criteria.    

Provide information and if necessary technical assistance to organizations with environmental impact issues to help them implement processes and technology to reduce or eliminate pollution.    

Propose environmental and health safety standards to the Council of the People.



Regional Court System

This court system is designed for justice, practicality, is human centric and de-centralized.  Justice is essential for peace.  Peace leads to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, also prosperity.

In this system are:     

  a)  Minor and Major Court to hear petty and serious criminal cases.        

  b)  Arbitration Court as a Public service.         

  c)   Jury system.        

  d)  Elected Offices of Conductor of the Court, Public Arbitrator and Guarantor of Rights.     


Major and Minor Court which consist of:        

A Conductor of the Court to manage and conduct the court and proceedings.        

A Sheriff to support the Conductor of the Courts and enforce the decision of the Jury.    

Either a Guarantor of Rights representing an injured party and the accused with designated counsel or two or more parties to a dispute and their counsel.                

A Certified Fair Witness to record the proceedings.                

A full Jury with alternates as per the type of court.                

Witnesses to provide testimony and evidence as appropriate.                

Observers who may attend, record and even publish.            


Arbitration Court which consists of:        

A Public Arbitrator to manage and conduct the court proceedings.                

A Certified Fair Witness to record the proceedings.                    

At least two parties, Person(s) or organization(s) and their designated counsel.                

Witnesses to provide testimony and evidence as appropriate.                

Observers who may attend, record and even publish.    


Jury System        

The Jury decides each case and has authority to nullify a law.        


Minor and Major Court Jury            


A Minor Court Jury has seven Jurors who vote and one alternate.  A majority of six of the seven members is required to make a decision.        

A Major Court Jury has fourteen Jurors who vote and two alternates.  A majority of twelve of the fourteen members is required to find the accusations made of the defendant are true.        


Warrant Jury        

A Warrant Jury of fourteen Jurors will be empaneled from the Jury pool, for the purpose of determining the issuing of Search and/or Arrest Warrants.        

It may be convened by a Guarantor of Rights with the attendance of a Sheriff and Fair Witness.        

For a Warrant to be issued, It must be clear evidence and testimony with probable cause that Rights have been violated. It must be supported by oath or affirmation. It must particularly describe the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.        

If it appears insufficient information is presented, the jury should vote against issuing a warrant.        

Twelve votes are required for approval to issue a Warrant for search and/or seizure or a Warrant for arrest and/or for charges to be brought against a Person compelling them to appear in a Major or Minor Court.        

The hearing may be conducted without a public audience, however, record of the hearing must be made public soon after.        

The accused has the Right to be informed of the witnesses, nature and cause of the accusation, testimony and evidence against them.            


Clearing a False Conviction

The Warrant jury may also hear a request to clear a false conviction. If a simple majority approve, a new hearing will be scheduled and a criminal investigation by may be launched.    


Regional Major and Minor Court Procedure   

There are many details, but the main points are:    

  The hearing shall be held as soon as is reasonable. If the accused is deprived of their liberty, the hearing shall have scheduling priority.    

  The accused has the Right to the Assistance of Counsel of their choice and a compulsory process for obtaining witnesses to aid their defense.    

  The accused may not be compelled to testify and may refuse to answer specific questions when they do testify.

  Anyone found to knowingly present false evidence or withhold exonerating evidence shall be charged with a criminal offense equal in severity to the charge brought against the accused.    

  Each case shall be decided by a vote of the Jury. The Jury must interpret the law which shall be short and in clear language as per the Rights of the People.    

  If the accusations are found to be true, the accused has the duty to make restitution to the injured party and may face a penalty.    

  Excessive, cruel and unusual punishments may not be inflicted, including maiming and physical abuse.    

  In all matters of dispute resolution, the objective is for healing of involved parties if possible.    

  In no case will fines be levied or property seized that does not go toward restitution. That is a court cannot charge for its services or have a financial incentive to convict.    


Elected Offices of the Court System Branch    

The number of offices per Region will be determined by legislation based on need. 

Each of the three offices will form managerial committees. 

Each must manage their share of the Court System and required staffing.    


Conductor of the Court        

Serves a six year term without term limits. Approximately half of the offices shall be up for election on each cycle.        

Presides over Minor and Major Court and has authority to manage the court process including:        

  Determine in which type of court the case should be heard.        

  Advise the jury, clarify issues and answer their questions.        

  Dismiss a case if that is clearly the just course of action.        

  Abolish a Jury Ruling or Declare a mistrial for cause and re-schedule the hearing.           

  Have a someone, even a Jury member removed for misconduct.            


Rights of the People Guarantor    

Has investigative authority and may present evidence to a Warrant Jury when a violation of Rights, which is a crime, occurs and a search, arrest or service of warrant to appear is required.    

Is the watchdog of the Sheriff and other Executive Branch officials for the People.         

May presents evidence for impeachment of an official to the legislative body.    


Regional Public Arbitrator    

No term limit.    

Presides over Arbitration Court and has authority to manage the court process including:

  Choose to accept a case for a hearing.

  After hearing the case, determine a fair and just ruling.

  Have a Person removed from the hearing for misconduct.



Planet

At the Planetary level, each Member and Region is represented, organized and defended as a unified civilization.  While this system is decentralized by design, there does have to be central coordination and common standards for humanity to achieve peace and prosperity with individual liberty.  

This model balances the interests of the People and the Regions. There are significantly different roles and responsibilities between the Planetary and Regional levels.


Planetary Executive branch    

Composed of five Departments, headed by an elected office accountable to the People:            

Administration  -  Office of Planetary Administrator                

Treasury -  Office of Planetary Treasurer                

Sheriff -  Office of Planetary Sheriff                

Embassy -  Office of Planetary Ambassador                

Environmental Guardian -  Office of Planetary Environmental Guardian            

Planetary Executive Council 

Consists of the five department heads with the leadership changing on a rotational basis.         

Shall hold frequent and regular meetings, especially when the legislature is in session.        

Each department is similar in role to the Regional counterpart except on a Planetary level.        

Each office shall promote best practices, technical assistance and facilitate communication among the related Regional departments        

The Planetary Executive deals with management problems which span Regions.        

First point of inter-region dispute resolution.      

Responsibilities include:        

  Report to and maintain liaison with the Planetary Council of the People and Council of the Regions.  

  Approve or veto legislation with a majority vote.         

  Oversight of the Military, nominating five of the nine member Defense Force Council.

  Defining Regional borders and facilitating the implementation of Regional management.    

  Promoting best practices, knowledge sharing for the rapid adoption of improved methods, processes and efficiencies across the many parallel roles within each Region.       



Fair Witness Branch

Shall be independent of the Executive, Legislative and Court System branches to provide credibility, fairness and openness.

The Fair Witness role is an observer within Planetary, Regional and District levels of management and Chartered Public Service Cooperatives and shall have necessary access accomplish their role.

The Fair Witness Branch shall create, publish and maintain records and libraries for access by the People for an informed electorate.

A Certified Fair Witness shall be present at:    

  Offices, facilities and managerial meetings of the the Executive Branch.   

  Court System hearings and jury deliberations.    

  Legislative sessions, subcommittee meetings, hearings and official events.    

  Each District Council of Elders assembly.    

  Board Meetings and significant meetings within Public Service Cooperatives.

Qualified individuals shall be trained, tested and certified to be impartial, honest and keen observers. 

Their language shall be clear and objective without assumption or subjectivity.

The Fair Witness Branch personnel shall be fluent in major languages and Korean which shall be the common language. 

They shall become masters of linguistics and communication, and may contribute to the improvement of language and communications.

Fair Witnesses are not police, while their work may be evidence in criminal investigations, they do not conduct them. 


Training and Certification

The Fair Witness system requires facilities in each Region for very demanding and difficult training.

Trainee:  Qualified persons accepted into the program.

Apprentice:  Graduates of the program, now qualified to assist.

Certified Fair Witness (CFW):  After an appropriate Apprenticeship with criteria are met, an Apprentice may test to become a CFW.

Senior Certified Fair Witness (SCFW):  After honorable service as CFW, with criteria met, a CFW may test to become a SCFW.


Fair Witness branch Organization

Each Region shall be adminstered by an elected nine member Regional Fair Witness Council (RFWC). Each seat serves a nine year term with three seats up for election during standard election cycle. Limited to two terms.

The RFWC is elected within the Region by CFWs and SCFWs.  Only SCFWs are eligible to be nominated.

The Planetary Fair Witness Council (PFWC) is composed of twenty seven seats, elected by and from SCFWs.  Each seat serves a nine year term with three seats up for election during standard election cycle. Limited to one term.

A process shall be established for the reprimand or recall of a CFW or SCFW when necessary.


Planetary Defense Force

A Society unwilling to use force when necessary to defend itself it is unlikely to exist for very long. Readiness is material preparedness. Vigilance is a state of being. Fast response is skill. Readiness, vigilance and fast response are critical and can only be achieved though being prepared, training and practice. 

Therefore a single Defense Force is established, subject to oversight and investigation by the Planetary Council of the People, Council of the Regions, Planetary Executive Committee.


Defense Force Council

The nine member Defense Force Council commands the Planetary Defense Force.  

The Defense Force Council elects a Conductor annually.

Five of the nine seats of the Military Council will be nominated by a member the Planetary Executive Committee, subject to approval by the Planetary Council of the Regions.  Four of the seats are elected by members of the two highest levels of rank. All nominees are selected from the two highest levels of Rank.

The Military Council will maintain liaison with the Planetary Executive committee and the Councils of the Regions and People.


Civilian Control


Resource and budget allocation for the Planetary Defense Force shall be set through the legislative process in the budget.


Force Structure

The Planetary Defense Force shall be:    

  Structured to have a minimal active duty force with a large reserve contingent who may be called to active duty in time of need.        

  An all volunteer force.        

  A unified organization structure and a single order of rank. 

  Recruitment shall be proportional across Regions. 

Members of the Planetary Defense Force are entitled to the same rights as non-military members.

Promotion and role assignment must be based on merit and respect from peers with pre-defined objective goals.

Training for qualifications and certifications will be ongoing throughout an individual’s military service.

The Planetary Defense Force will define its organizational and operational unit structures, roles and responsibilities and report this to the Planetary Office of Administrator and the Councils of the People and Regions.

The Councils of the People and Regions must craft legislation for designation of rank title, insignia, specialization, uniform styles and colors. Proposals will be presented by military staff and individuals to the Council of the People.


Military Secrecy

The Military needs secrets, especially in planning, communications and operational security. However, Military leaders must balance the ‘Need to Know’ with ‘Right to Know’ and ‘Duty to Inform’.


Emergency Response

The Defense Force is expected to act pro-actively in a defensive role. In the event of an emergency response to an immediate threat, the Defense Force Council shall inform and advise the Executive Committee, Council of the People and Council of the Regions who shall meet to determine a course of action.


Intelligence

Planetary Defense Force Intelligence is responsible for intelligence collection and analysis relative to the defense of this Planet and the Rights of the People.

Responsibilities include anticipation of risks, threats and determining vulnerabilities.


Financial System

Planetary and Regional banks shall be established, owned by the Public Trust.

The Planetary Treasurer nominates members of the five member Planetary Bank Council subject to legislative approval.

The Regional Treasurers nominate members of the five member Regional Bank Councils.

Interest bearing loans are forbidden, but a service fee may be charged.

In any chartered or registered organization, there shall be a maximum ratio of 7 to 1 between the lowest paid role and the highest.

A monetary account shall be established for each Person from which a minimum universal income of equal amount shall be paid to everyone.

A maximum annual compensation for an individual shall be set through the Planetary legislative process.  

Any compensation over the limit shall be added to the above account to raise the amount of the minimum universal income.  Persons contributing in this way will be publicly acknowledged to their honor.


Conversion of Businesses, Corporations and other Organizations

Processes shall be established for conversion of existing organizations and businesses to a Chartered Cooperative or Public Service Cooperative.


Summary

These structures provide for authoritative roles delegated responsibility for effectiveness, yet preventing undue concentrations of power.  

The flexibility of the design provides for local District to be a semi-autonomous political unit.  

This model unleashes the human potential creating more leadership roles with less interference to accomplishing their objectives.

Each role is charged with an active mandate to perform.  

Initial priorities include:    

Implementing Sustainable Food Production.

Enforcing Environmental Standards.    

Providing Clean Water and Sanitation in all communities world wide.     

Local, small scale, sustainable food production methods disseminated world wide.     

Conversion to clean energy in transportation and industry.     

Mass distribution of small scale clean energy for heat, light, cooking & electric needs.   

Creating new Public Service Cooperatives established to provide vital services.    

This plan defines a new social contract between an Individual, the Natural World and our Civilization.  If honored and implemented properly, a new era of human peace and prosperity could lead to unimaginable wonders and knowledge.  

The Arts will reach new heights. Technical innovation could be quickly implemented.  

Modular design standards will evolve for improved efficiency, reducing costs and enhancing our quality of life.  

Though People will live longer, healthier lives, a natural population reduction is likely.  

Freedom to relocate will reduce high population centers and the environment impact.  

The greatest source of pollution, environmental destruction and suffering is war.  This plan creates a unified force and eliminates war as we know it today.

The only way the human race can emerge from enslavement is to unite under this system.


You are Welcome.


         
3. Argumentation demonstrating how the model meets the assessment criteria


Core Values

The core values of the proposed governance model is defined by the Rights of the People and the Guiding Principals. 

For any legitimate system of human organization designated with decision making authority, there must be representation of the people. Any institution of “human governance” must never exist to control, oppress, or restrict the rights of anybody anywhere. 

For the proposed model, the goal is to create a Public Trust and system of management in order to:    

  Facilitate effective and efficient distribution of resources and services needed to meet everyones basic needs.        

  Establish and Protect the Rights of the People.        

  Provide for a Common Defense.         

  Promote industrial methods and systems which are sustainable from an ecological perspective.        

  Promote clean, renewable energy.

  Create the basis and infrastructure for a new and thriving Planetary Human Civilization.        

  Live in peace with the other life whom we share this world.        

  To effectively deal with other non-human civilizations, especially those which seek to trade or threaten us.        


Decision Making Capacity

The Legislative and Executive branches have broad authority over natural resource use and extraction.

Each of the roles defined do not have to wait for permission to do something, rather they have a strong mandate to act. 


Effectiveness

The simplified three tier structure eliminates layers of potential bureaucratic and political sub entity interference.

The Executive Committee members are delegated authority essential to implementing their mandate, while respecting the Rights of the People and adhering to legislation as it is passed.

The District, with its Council of Elders and Representative of the People, is well suited to provide local community services.

The Rights of the People dramatically reduce and simplify law thus allowing a more useful and functional role for the legislature.

The Rights of the People strongly empower environmental cleanup and pollution control for the Environmental Guardian.

The Rights of the People provide tools for the Sheriff to arrest People and shutdown organizations which produce, distribute and apply toxic, carcinogenic and mutagenic chemicals to fields of food plants or mass pollute the air, water or land.

Safety is a serious matter. The Rights of the People empower implementation of safety standards enjoyed in some parts of the world now, to be applied world wide.  This could be used eliminate horrendous work conditions which cripple, maim and kill People today.

In this model, a group of talented individuals with a good business plan could work with the staff of the the Regional Administrator to apply for a Chartered Cooperative. When requirements are met and documented, the Regional Bank would fund the organization into existence without interest. Then provide assistant to guide them in their financial management if needed to help ensure success.

The Public Service Cooperative model for Hospitals, Airports, Seaports, etc. can be quite effective, efficient and responsive while being autonomous.

Eliminating local police, county or parish police and replacing them with a more professional Regional Sheriff's Department will standardize law enforcement and improve consistency. This reduces overall costs with improved efficiency and elimination of redundancy.  

A smaller, more professional police force, combined with a universal Rights of the People and simplified law, will be much more effective in reducing crime.

Each Region will have the authority to manage the natural resources within the Region.  For example, in mining this means authority over environmental impact, safety, and quantity.  And in fishery, this means quotas, size standards and protected species, even a ban on bad technique or practices.

Today's multi-national conglomerates will not have more power than the countries they operate in as they will no longer be multi-national.


Resources and Financing

Taxation on land or compensation for labor will not exist, but industry and commerce are taxable.  By using simple tax laws, compliance will be easy and much less effort will be spent avoiding a tax.  There will be no off-shore tax havens or out of country money being moved around to avoid taxation or accountability.

In the event a particular resource is discovered in a said region, then Council of the People will have the responsibility of drafting and approving models of organization best suited for the extraction and utilization of the discovered resource.  For example, if a deposit of cobalt is discovered in region A, then the legislature of region A would approve of business models best are suited for cobalt extraction/processing. 

Once a need is established for the extraction of the cobalt, the Administrator of the Executive Committee would place a bid to the public for an organizational model that best extracts the cobalt in respect to the Rights of the People and criteria set forth by the legislature. In the event an individual or group propose a organizational template for cobalt mining that meets the criteria defined by the legislature, then the Executive Committee will vote and decide which organizational model, or models, is/are best suited for funding. Such venture would be financed by the Planetary or Regional Bank. 

The office of the Planetary Treasury shall have the exclusive authority to issue currency in proportion to economic growth. So long as currency growth does not exceed economic growth, then the purchasing power of the currency will hypothetically remain stable. 

In other words, instead of a new businesses or public service cooperatives funding their enterprise from capital issued from financial institutions, in the proposed model, the funds for new enterprises shall be created into existence from either the regional or planetary treasury (as is appropriate) without the charge of usury (e.g., interest). 

The proposed system of financial management is intended to eliminate the burgeoning burdens and inefficiencies of a debt propelled economy.


Trust and Insight

In the proposed model of governance, there shall exist the Fair Witness. The responsibility of the Fair Witness is that of a records keeper. They shall be trained as objective observers, and the responsibilities and expectations of the Fair Witness shall be predefined. All information collected and recorded by the Fair Witness shall be open to any member of public. For any legislative assembly and executive committee discussion to occur legitimately, the presence of the Fair Witness shall be required.

The Fair Witness branch is a check and balance of power between the Legislative, Court System and Executive branches. 


Flexibility

In the proposed model, the sole mechanism in which the structures and guidelines of the governance model can be amended is through a referendum by the people. A two-thirds majority vote from every member of the system shall be the requisite for any amendment to the design structure and mechanisms.

Protection Against the Abuse of Power

In this system positions of authority are professional roles and share common goals.

There is an impeachment process for any elected office, and a process for special election when an official is removed for cause.

There are checks and balances throughout the system, beginning with a separation of powers.

The Fair Witness branch will go a long way to provide public oversight of elected offices and their staff.

An individuals first line of public service is the local District Council of Elders and representative to the Regional Council of the People. 

The next level of protection against abuse of office is that a complaint may be brought to a Regional Sheriff, Guarantor of Rights or any Regional Legislator. 

Planetary level officials are able to oversee and bring investigation across the whole system.

The Rights of the People will be an effective restriction on abuse of power.

There is no single official in charge of the Executive branch.  The power is shared in the Executive Council to ensure better decisions are made minimizing personal bias or issues.

The Defense Force Council likewise avoids a concentration of power and ensures deliberation in the decision making process.

In the Court System, the often abused office of Judge is eliminated altogether.  The Facilitator of the Court has authority over the court but not over the Jury's decision.  

The whole concept of a single Judge overturning a law or setting a 'precedent' which then has to be followed is eliminated in favor of a decentralized jury system.

In the Public Service Cooperatives, the Board of Directors and there is access the important organization information.


Accountability

In this system, there are basically three methods for accountability of public officials.     

  1)  The whole Fair Witness branch provides transparency so people can see what is going on and make their own informed decisions.        

  2)  The Election Process will go a long way to removing the corrupting influence of political campaign contributions, secret society affiliations and conflicts of interest among candidates for public office.        

  3)  No Person is above the law. Anyone can initiate a criminal complaint against any public official for cause.           




Descriptive tags/keywords:

de-centralization, republic, rights of the people, representation, ecology, local-regional-planetary

Last saved: Today at 6:27 AM

© 2017 Global Challenges Foundation.
All Rights Reserved.
Global Challenges Foundation
Norrsken House - Postbox 14
Birger Jarlsgatan 57C, 113 56
Stockholm, Sweden
Sign up for our bi-monthly
updates here!

Follow us on Twitter 

We also retain copyright so do not worry.

