Of, By and For the People
from the perspective of an Earth Human Being
by
Angelo Patrick Arteman

Of, By and For the People

Of, By and For the People
Of, By and For the People
from the perspective of
an Earth Human Being
by
Angelo Patrick Arteman
January 2014
This work is intended for the benefit of the Peoples of
Earth.
It may be copied, shared and distributed freely as long as
it remains unaltered but not sold. It may be translated
into any language as long as the original English is also
in the same document for readers to verify the
authenticity of the translation. It may be published with
commentary as long as the original text is kept intact and
the commentary portion is clearly distinguished as such.
Information wants to be free. An idea cannot be owned as
it exists apart from any one being, in the mental plane
where it can be viewed by those who learn to see. Share
with others, that which is given freely to you.

Of, By and For the People
Dedication
This work is dedicated to my children and the youth
of this world, that they may know peace, justice
and freedom from oppression in their lifetimes. And
to the People who have shown light into the dark
corners, some who died in the process, that others
may learn the truth. And to those individuals who
have helped me in this life, without whom I could
not have written this book.
First Edition, Revision One
21 January, 2014

Of, By and For the People
Table of Contents
Preface
Prolog
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Chapter 7
Chapter 8
Chapter 9
Chapter 10
Chapter 11
Chapter 12
Chapter 13
Chapter 14
Chapter 15
Chapter 16
Chapter 17
Chapter 18
Bibliography
..............................................................1
..............................................................6
History Influencing this Book..........11
Freedom, Sovereignty &
Discussion of Rights..........................22
Rights of the People..........................30
Role of the Community / Society......36
Justice?..............................................40
Governmental Structure...................50
Executive Branch..............................56
Legislative Branch............................65
Court System Branch........................70
Fair Witness Branch.........................84
Initial Setup of Government.............96
Economy.............................................98
Social Institutions...........................115
Food Production..............................117
Technology Development................121
Military............................................125
Educational System........................139
My Vision for Humans Being.........151
..........................................................155

Of, By and For the People
Nothing in the world is softer
and weaker than water;
But, for attacking the hard and strong,
there is nothing like it!
For nothing can takes its place.
That the weak overcomes the strong,
and the soft overcomes the hard,
That is something known by all,
but practiced by none.
Therefore, the Sage says:
To receive the dirt of a country
is to be the lord of its soil shrines.
To bear the calamities of a country
is to be the prince of the world.
Indeed, Truth sounds like its opposite!
Tao Teh Ching #78
Lao Tzu
Translated by John C. H. Wu

Of, By and For the People
Preface
I was born on August 30, 1961 at about 1:26 in the after
noon in Peoria, Illinois. In the heart of the Shield of the
United States of America, which is what I fancy Illinois
looks like on a map. It was a not a pretty birth. My
mother suffered in a most painful way. The cold handed
doctor all but killed me in the process. Maybe because,
according to the way of thinking of the doctor working for
the Roman Catholic hospital, I was just a second class citizen. A child born with extra Original Sin. My birth
mother was sent away to have me in shame. I was taken
away at birth. We did not meet again for 25 years.
The doctor used some kind of tool that crushed my head
and popped a blood vessel deep in my right brain. I was
born crippled. A cerebral palsy child. I can say, and this
is how it feels, that I was touched by a finger from the
hand of Death deep inside my brain at birth. Death
would be a close companion throughout my life. This may
seem unbelievable to some of you, but part of myself has
always been in the realm of the dead.
Par for the course when you are born in sin I guess. By
the way, what kind of idiocy is it to believe in “Original
Sin”? There is really not much more of a dehumanizing
concept than that. I never thought it made much sense
and never accepted it. But millions are fooled into believing such crap. Not to judge too harshly, but it is our duty
to question the bullshit and not accept it.
1

Of, By and For the People
So, the left side of my body would spasm uncontrollably.
What was to become of me? I remember laying in what I
know now was a crib with wooden slats, on a terrazzo
floor, in a big cold room with a high ceiling. Of course
everything is big when seen through the eyes of a baby.
Several orbs of light were above me, in a circle. They
were beings of light. They discussed what to do amongst
themselves. Was I to stay or abandon this broken vessel?
The message I got was they were going to “rewire” and
repair my brain.
So I was to stay in this damaged vehicle and attempt to
fulfill my mission in this world. Of course, not too clear on
what that mission was. Sometimes I think I was thrown
into this situation at this time, on this planet just cause
someone wanted to see what would happen. Who knows?
Maybe that is why all of us are here?
I was eventually taken in by a family in Illinois. After a
time, when it turned out the repairs that no one on this
Earth knew about but me, worked, they decided to keep
me. I became the ninth child in a family of ten children.
My name was changed and a “sanitized” birth certificate
was made.
Mom & Dad wanted a big Catholic family. They were certainly dedicated. They had endured their own hardships
in life. It is not for me to judge them. I certainly would
have been worse off if they had not taken me in.
When ideas are presented, does it really matter who
writes or speaks that idea? No, damn it, it does not.
What matters is the idea, or the song, the art, that which
2

Of, By and For the People
is created. If we were to judge the works of our species by
judging who made these works, how much good art would
remain?
This is not about me. This is about You. All of You who
are Humans on this planet called Earth, having an experience. Those of you who are spiritually and mentally
immortal, but temporarily inhabiting a physical body, an
awareness of this existence. That is a big distinction,
because not everyone you see is Human or born here. And
where a person's immortal spirit comes from is more significant than the history of the body they are in.
It is important to understand, there are many, many different peoples on, in and around this planet. This book is
intended for those who are good at heart; who love the
Human species and are willing to demand their rights;
and are willing to break free from the many oppressors
who lay in wait, even before birth, to enslave us.
If any of you need to be controlled or need to surrender to
some entity who wants your sacrifice and subservience,
get away from me. This book is not for you. Maybe some
day when you are ready it will be.
If you feel that my choice of words is vulgar or obscene, I
would like to educate you on what is really vulgar and
obscene. The subjugation, manipulation and attempted
control of others is the real vulgar obscenity. War, injustice, oppression, inequitable distribution of food and
wealth, GMO being substituted for food, chimeras, too
much secrecy, child sacrifice, blood sacrifice of any kind,
torture. Need I go on?
3

Of, By and For the People
I cannot write this without expressing my outrage and
anger over what I see is going on. That I have managed
to calm down enough to write at all has taken many
years. If you can do better, please do. For me, this is the
best I can do. And I am not sorry if it disappoints or bothers anyone. Not going to apologize for this. Well, maybe,
after all of the oppressors of my People stop their atrocities and apologize, I could reconsider.
In this edition, I have toned it down quite a bit. Felt it
necessary to remove some of what most people would consider coarse language. It was difficult as the F word is
the most versatile word in the English language. This is
an emotional work for me. Really poured my heart out
like never before. Still, I may reach a wider audience this
way. My gut tells me the same people who could not handle the earlier drafts will not be able to handle the truth
no mater how it is conveyed. They might be more inclined
to at least read it this way though, might sink in later.
What I have learned is not easily provable. Some of what
I know is from what other people would call subjective
reality. We all have senses and perceptions beyond what
is called the physical world. I certainly do anyway.
I am expressing my own personal beliefs and ideas, to
share with you. I know that no matter what I say or
write, no truth is ever conveyed to anyone who does not
have the energy to receive it.
My intent is not to write a scholarly work with detailed
citations and references. I really do not have the patience
and probably even the skill for that. Also, many times in
4

Of, By and For the People
my life I have had discussions with others, where I
express my subjective observations. Many times, the
other person has said I must have read this or that or
seen this or that documentary, speaker or other source.
When in truth, I had not seen, read or heard the source
they refer to. They act confused sometimes, as if it were
not possible for a person to have their own analysis.
So many people seem to have to be told by a so called
authority to believe anything. I would be dead a long
time ago if that were true in my life. It is a bit like saying
people have visited from other worlds, times or dimensions only if their political or religious “leaders” were to
say so. It does not matter to them that they have their
own awareness. Or that thousands of people have come
forward with disclosure, for instance. Or that they have
been lied to by these same “Leaders” as a matter of course.
Guess it is just a part of human nature.
This book provides a positive goal for Humans Being on
this planet, who are facing an existential threat to their
existence, to begin to focus upon. That is all of us. It is
not enough to turn away from the old, failed order. It
takes a positive, objective goal to be established for it to
be manifest into reality by our collective intent.
Bottom line, I am writing this so I can rest more comfort
ably. If somehow this leads to a more peaceful and just
organization of the Humans Being, then I be trippin happily on my way, passing through this world and back
through the veil.
5

Of, By and For the People
Prolog
With this book, I am trying to convey what are essentially
subjective thoughts and beliefs. A person's beliefs make
up their paradigm of reality. But it is unlikely any two
persons have the same paradigm of reality. So don't get
too bent out of shape if you do not agree. If you find my
observations and suggestions useful, and I hope you do, it
is enough. But please do not get caught up in the minutia.
I could provide names of people who I believe have presented very great material, who are actual scholars.
There are some listed in the Bibliography. But there is no
one source that I completely agree with or that has all the
pieces. There are many pieces to this puzzle. And what is
right for one person might not be the best for another per
son.
Any real solution has to not care so much about our differences but about our similarities.
I am like you, because I am not like you. We are unique,
all of us. Everyone has their unique perspective in time
and space. I fully realize no two persons see, hear or otherwise sense exactly the same. Some to a larger degree of
difference than others. This is important to keep in mind,
in order to begin to understand each other.
This is my attempt to contribute solutions to the existential threat we face as a species, as a People. We need
some form of organization to defend ourselves from our
6

Of, By and For the People
declared and undeclared enemies. But if we create an
authoritarian style organization, then what is there worth
defending?
It is my experience that government can be and often is
the most vile, deceitful, dishonest, corrupt and disgusting
institution there is. All governments are corrupt or
unjust. I am not aware of anywhere on this world where
this is not the case. The only possible exceptions are
short lived. A good social order must prevent oppressive,
authoritarian government from existing in our lives.
I respect no centrally organized religion. This is distinct
from a philosophy, belief or code of conduct. Centrally
organized religion is a major source of strife, injustice,
war, poverty, mind control and oppression. If that statement pisses you off, well you most likely deserve it. How
about you question the bullshit and free your mind?
I do totally understand that many good or well intended
people are in these middle eastern religions and their
spin-offs. That is the Catholic Church, other variations on
Christian Churches, Islam, Judaism, Luciferianism and
the Church of Satan. These are ultimately a form of slavery. You have better already inside you. You are directly
a part of the real Creator. There is no limit to your Consciousness. Now is not the time to continue on as you
have. Free your mind and soul for yourself. But some
will not find that to be enough motivation. You have a
duty to free your mind and soul for the benefit of all
Humans Being.
7

Of, By and For the People
We are being enslaved at an extremely rapid rate. These
organizations are actively involved in this process though
most of their members do not know it. All it takes is the
collective will and intent of the People for that to stop.
Liberation comes one Person at a time.
I actually have met the Master called Jesus.
He is real. There is no major Christian church that
teaches what He taught. He taught me more in five minutes than I have learned in the whole rest of my life. That
is Real. That is direct. Aum.
All of these organization have positive teachings. Rat poi
son is 99% good healthy food and 1% Sodium Fluoride.
I believe that most people, souls, incarnating on this
planet are linked to three or four interstellar races. And
that we are genetically related to very many interstellar
species. Some among Pleiadians are said to have a saying: "Politics is Religion" according to Alex Collier in
“Defending Sacred Ground”. I agree. So this is my political statement to all. My personal religion. I do not need
converts. I do not need others to agree for me to feel right
about this.
All of you are created by the infinite source of all creation.
You and I are a part of the consciousness of the creator.
Even though our physical body has been genetically engineered, those beings who did this are not our creator.
They sure want me and you to be their slaves and play
god to us though. Our spirit and mind bodies exist far
beyond the confines of this temporal existence, and theirs
as well.
8

Of, By and For the People
There is no need for an intermediary. No need to prostrate yourself or surrender your will to some wanna be
controlling entity who seeks your subservience. I believe
it is actually a kind of treason to ourselves and to the real
Creator to do this.
The source of all creation has made us co-creators, how
ever small a part of this vast, possibly infinite universe.
Though I am just another one of billions, that does not
lessen my status as a sovereign being with rights. Rights
that I do demand for myself and yourself.
This book is about law. Law is a living concept. People do
not exist to serve law. Legitimate law exists only to serve
the People.
We are at war for our survival. This planet is a battle
ground of cosmic proportions. I do not trust any entity
from anywhere without merit. As Humans Being, a good
social order is extremely critical to adopt to gain the unity
to defend ourselves from both malevolent and well
intended beings who seek to exterminate or dominate and
control the Humans on this planet and elsewhere.
The way this works is relatively simple. As co-creators
with free will, each of us manifest reality through our
intent. When that intent is synchronized to the relatively
same goal, that future gets created. The game of the
malevolent beings, always it seems, is to get us to create
our own dystopian future. That is what the apocalyptic
religious teachings are all about. Who do you think created that? Not our Creator, I can assure you.
9

Of, By and For the People
There are classes of beings which literally feed on our fear
and negative emotions. They can been seen by psychics
hovering over battlefields for instance. But, did you know
movie theaters too? Horror movies create fear which they
feed on. They are parasitic because they cannot create for
themselves. Fear lowers our vibrational frequency. The
object is to increase our vibrational frequency. Love is the
highest frequency.
It is in this context this book is written. I am proposing a
more utopian future for us to manifest into being. True
Utopia is unobtainable by definition. I want to move in
that direction for a change and have a good time on the
way.
10

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 1
History Influencing this Book
When the united States was formed, the King of England
at the time, signed the Treaty of Paris granting his
Sovereignty, as a King to the Colonies and its Citizens.
This is kind of important in that no such thing had happened before or since, at least from the last time humans
were all but made extinct (again), about 12,500 years ago.
What I believe it really meant was, “If I grant
sovereignty, you will never organize or unite and will be
easily retaken over and enslaved as subjects again. But
for the example of the Algonquin Nation and their consultation to the Continental Congress, a republic of sovereign
individuals may not have happened.
A read of the Constitution of the united States presents
one with obvious injustice and other problems:
Slavery, WHAT? NO! People are NOT property!
Women were not allowed to vote or have equal legal status? What? Not acceptable.
You have to own land and be of a certain parentage to be
a citizen? Does not sound right to me. Does not pass the
sniff test.
So the original Constitution was a big deal, an improvement, but not good enough to create a good or sustainable
society which preserves our Rights.
11

Of, By and For the People
The men representing the colonies would not accept the
Constitution without clearly defined restrictions on government. The Bill of Rights was created and approved.
Even though the Bill of Rights has never been actually
enforced or fully implemented, that document stands as
the highest achievement so far. Even though these Rights
no longer exist as you and I no longer live under the rule
of law, they represent a pretty solid Declaration of Rights.
So, We the People must have a clear and simple Declaration of Rights. Something to reference for ourselves and to
show others.
The example of a republic of sovereign individuals with
declared and established Inalienable Rights bestowed by
the Creator is a good one. What I endeavor to do is build
on that example. Improve on it.
Let us examine the Declaration of Independence drafted
by Thomas Jefferson.
The context is clear. The motivations spelled out. But it
is still a reactive document. Much of the text does not
really apply in the context of today. But, one line stands
alone, above and beyond all else. It is true and cherished
deep in my heart:
“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are
created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator
with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are
Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.”

Wow! I need to pause to shed a tear. I cry happily for the
beauty of that statement and for the courage of the people
12

Of, By and For the People
who signed it. I cry sadly for the fact that it took 10,000
years, figuratively, for it to happen. I cry that nowhere on
the planet is there a government that does not violate it.
The Declaration of Independence goes on:
“That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted
among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent
of the governed, That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of
the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new
Government, laying its foundation on such principles and
organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem
most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments long established should not be changed for light and transient
causes; and accordingly all experience hath shewn, that
mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms
to which they are accustomed. But when a long train of
abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same
Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute
Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off
such Government, and to provide new Guards for their
future security."
Pretty ballsy statement and correct. The use of the word
men is an issue I have a problem with though. It really
was a government instituted by men and not men and
women. What is up with that? I want more than just
another form of repression and control to replace an older
one. If you can get half the population to dominate and
13

Of, By and For the People
effectively oppress the other half, the divide and conquer
method is well on its way. There is also no clear reference
to the Rights of Children.
While it is easy to agree with the need to throw off
oppression, the newly formed government was quickly
corrupted.
I cite the Whiskey Rebellion which was put down by murder. George Washington just happened to be the wealthiest man in America and held the largest estate. But, more
significantly, he owned the largest whiskey distillery in
America. So, he enforced a tax against the consent of the
governed. A tax that had to be paid in cash, which the
mountain folk, with their simple home stills, subsistence
living and cashless economy did not have. Did not matter
to him or the murder for hire thugs that attacked the People, that it was clearly a conflict of interest and a plain
violation of basic Rights.
If you want to know more, I suggest reading the late
Howard Zinn's “A People's History of the United States."
A real eye opener that.
The united States was fully destroyed back in the 1860's
by the Jesuits and their mind controlled and manipulated
minions. If you do not know that, I suggest you learn.
You will not learn the truth in school. You will not learn
the truth in any approved text book. I cannot prove it to
you. The truth is there for you to find it.
Since that time, there have been several Coup d'tats in
the United States. One happened in 1913, one in 1935, in
1947, 1963, 1968, and 2000. I am sure others can point
14

Of, By and For the People
out more, these are of particular significance to me.
1865 War between the States. Ended with the destruction and enslavement of the Southern States and then
everyone in the new authoritarian state. The original
13th Amendment was quietly no longer printed and hid
den with a new 13th amendment which was never legally
ratified. A 14th amendment, also not ratified by law,
which declared everyone subjects of a corporation called
the United States. The legal system was obliterated and
replaced by the British Accredited Registry Association.
This was the sort of thing forbidden by the original 13th
Amendment.
The American Army was the most technologically
advanced in the world by the end of the war. That Army
was turned on the Native Peoples of North America.
Some of the worst genocide and atrocities ever committed
were made to happen. Personally, that crime is so horribly bad, it is reason enough to walk away from all that
and start anew, as I am proposing in this book. This time
we will be taught by the surviving wise men and women
of these ancient and spiritual cultures.
1913 The Federal Reserve Act was illegally put in place
after many key people were murdered, bribed, black
mailed and threatened. With this act, Congress abdicated
its duty and responsibility, effectively committing high
treason against the People. This act subjected the People
to economic control by the criminal, reptilian banking
cabal based in The City, in London, which in turn is an
agent of the Vatican.
15

Of, By and For the People
All roads lead to Rome. According to the researcher and
author Jordan Maxwell, the Roman Catholic Church is
over 3,500 years old. Lots of time. If they were for world
peace and legitimate government Of, By and For the People, I think it would be in evidence by now. It is fair to
say they have had their chance and failed.
1935  Some judges of the court system decided that the
government had effectively been bankrupted by the global
banking cabal. They decided that from now on, everyone
had given their implied consent to all repugnant law
(laws that exceed power granted to government in the Bill
of Rights or are otherwise in violation of the original Con
situation). Rulings by judges now became precedents,
another completely unconstitutional practice in which
judges effectively dictated legislation. States began to
license basic rights. License means privilege to do that
which is otherwise illegal.
This included such things as marriage, which was a double illegal act in that the Bill of Rights expressly prohibited government from enacting any law regarding the
establishment of religion. So all you who think it is so
important to get big oppressor's permission to marry as
you see fit, you have been fooled at least two levels deep.
You already have that right. It is an Inalienable Right.
These rights cannot be granted by anyone but the Creator. None but the Creator can take these Rights away.
1947 The creation of the Orwellian named National
Security Act was a clear violation of the Rights of the People. It effectively convinced many that a Secret Government no longer had to inform the People of their criminal
acts, even when directed against the People. Actual
National Security has only one legitimate objective, to
preserve the Rights of the People and ensure they are protected.
1963 After the mafioso Joe Kennedy had a stroke, young
Jack and Bobby decided to do good with their power.
While not all was good, they made a major attempt to
restore the Republic. As we know now, GHW Bush, J.
Edgar Hoover, Lyndon Johnson, the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
the Federal Reserve Board, the CIA, Richard Nixon, the
Secret Service, the Banking Cabal, the Vatican and other
elements of organized crime and media conglomerates
assassinated and/or covered-up the assassination of President Kennedy. As part of their operation, they made sure
of the timing, in broad daylight, on national television.
They made sure of the location, the 33 degree latitude. I
guess they just wanted to prove that evil, criminal forces
rule this former constitutional republic. Over 50 material
witnesses were murdered over the ensuing two weeks.
The criminals were quite successful.
There is a plethora of well documented research to sup
port this. But all you have to do is see that there was an
explosion and fire in the John F. Kennedy Presidential
Library on April 15, 2013, the week more information was
to be made available to the People. What specifically was
destroyed or removed? And the fact that the “official"
records were sealed, that is concealed, from the People for
50 years. Then that time was extended to prove the criminal cabal still runs the alleged federal government.
17

Of, By and For the People
An aspect of the significance of the assassination of JFK
which has been hidden deeply, is the fact that an ancient
city, 420,000 years old was found buried near Dallas in a
county named after the find, Rock Wall, Texas. It held a
repository of high technology developed by ancient
space/time travelers. Josh Reeves has done great work in
researching and presenting this. He created two hardcore
documentaries on the subject in his “Lost Secrets of
Ancient America Volumes I & II”. This information
apparently would have been made pubic in the speech
about to be given to the People. This trove was discovered
in the 1800's!!!
This suppression of information and technology, especially energy and medical technology, is essential to subjugate, manipulate and oppress the People.
1968 Bobby Kennedy had just won the California Primary and for all practical purposes was the de-facto president elect. So a criminal element within ITT Security was
contracted to shoot Bobby in the back of the head in front
of his ardent supporters. A nation mourned. Bobby was
not all good. Who among us is? But, he wanted to right
many wrongs, restore a Constitutional Republic and bring
peace and prosperity to the People. He also backed a lost
concept in this country Justice.
I do not even want to get into what happened to the
Carter family after that honest man was elected president. What I have been told... Someday that truth will
come out.
18

Of, By and For the People
Some of you may wonder why I am not pointing out the
attempted assassination of President Ronald Reagan.
Ronald Reagan was forced to accept GHW Bush as his
running mate. This proved almost fatal. See, back then
was the early days of CNN. When this mouthpiece of the
global criminal cabal was still in its infancy, it had a pol
icy of allowing unedited news reports to be broadcast.
This created excitement, trust and viewership. As it
should.
On March 30, 1981, there was a live interview of the doc
tor who lead the operation to save President Reagan. I
just happened to see this myself. The doctor announced
that he removed a thin disk the size of a dime, with razor
sharp edges. He said it had slipped between his ribs and
nearly sliced through his aorta. (That is the big artery
leading away from the heart) He said because it missed,
President Reagan would be fine and recover soon. I think
he said something like it missed by a quarter inch, but if
it struck his aorta, President Reagan would have died.
Hmmm. Lets see, Reagan has just made correct and disparaging remarks about the Federal Reserve Bank two
weeks earlier. He suggested abolishing the income tax as
well. Vice President Bush just happened to have lunch
with John Hinkley Jr. the day before the attempted assassination. Mr. Hinkley had a regular gun. A .38 caliber if
I remember correctly. He did not hit the President, who
had just won the election in the greatest landslide in history. So who did? 
19

Of, By and For the People
Reagan was only on the ticket in the first place because
he managed to cover up key evidence in the Bobby
Kennedy assassination investigation in California. But
after this happened Mr. Bush ran the show. Lets see,
from then until today.... Yup, nothing new. Same old
same old. So that is why it is not on my list of Coup d'tats affecting this book.
2000 The election was extremely fraudulent resulting in
a smirking chimp pretending to be president and the
undermining of the last vestiges of what at one time was
representative government. Of course the cabal behind
this regime attacked New York in the now infamous psychological operation against the American people. The
result is the establishment of the Fourth Reich with all
the fixings.
The NAZI's never surrendered. Some escaped to various
locations in South America and Antarctica. Some were
brought to the United States and Russia where they
assumed positions of power in the government. This is
more true of the United States. Nazism actually began in
the United States, there was already a base of support. I
could not get a handle on global politics without this fundamental understanding.
The next step involves something called Exo-Politics.
That is taking into account various species, I will call
them civilizations, which are not Humans Being. The
humanoid form is apparently not unusual though, so
some look like us or we look like them. It is not correct to
say extraterrestrial life, as some of these entities have
20

Of, By and For the People
lived or do live on this planet as well. Some just come and
go. Some are inter-dimensional beings. Some are time
travelers. All major governments are aware of this and
have dealings with various groups.
At this time, the former united States is under ZionistNAZI nuclear blackmail and enslavement. I call them
ZioNazis for short since it is much the same people. It
sickens me to no end. But what sickens me even more is
the mindless automatons who accept this or support it or
are in denial about it.
I am NOT OK with this situation.
This is NOT ACCEPTABLE!!
So, we do not have a legitimate government and the failed
state is hopelessly beyond repair. What is worse, these
enemies of all free souls are actively at war with the People of Earth. You and I are under attack.
The good news is the powers that wanna be are a bit dull,
as all creativity and real intelligence is suppressed. Well
some are pretty smart and have serious psychic powers,
but they just do not get it. This is why they use Humans
Being to create for them and then wipe their memory or
monitor inventive minds to steal their ideas. This is also
has a lot to do the ridiculous secrecy contracts that hide so
much. As a result, their structurally unsustainable system is collapsing. Even as they tighten their grip, their
fist holds less and less.
21

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 2
Freedom, Sovereignty & Discussion of
Rights
What is the best organizational structure for a group of
free and sovereign individuals. As humans being, it is
actually not possible to survive for very long without some
degree of cooperation. Not just us, but all mammals have
some degree of interdependence in order for the species to
survive.
What is Freedom? What is Sovereignty? These questions
are deeply personal. Only an individual can answer these
for themselves. And, if you are like me, that answer can
change over time as I experience and learn in the course
of living.
Personal freedom and sovereignty suggest independence
and autonomy. But we are inherently social animals.
(party animals too) No matter how advanced an individual becomes, when in a group, rules of behavior will
always apply. Personal boundaries and mutual respect
are critical to peace between individuals.
The concept of democracy is basically one person, one vote
and all group decisions must be voted on. In practicality,
this never works except on a small scale with like minded
individuals. It quickly becomes mob or majority rule with
oppression or death to the minority.
22

Of, By and For the People
When you hear a politician talk about democracy, they
are just lying deceivers. They are confident the majority
will be effectively manipulated to oppress the minority on
any given issue.
Democracy will always fail except on a small scale. In a
democracy, you have no rights that can be enforced except
through force. The united States was created to prevent a
democracy from happening. Democracy was probably the
greatest fear the framers of the Constitution had. This is
not blasphemy. This is truth.
Not everyone has the time, inherent skills or even interest
to be informed on all matters. People have many, many
skill sets and talents. But no one person has them all.
Even if everyone has the same information, the levels of
understanding of a particular subject can be quite different. And everyone has a life cycle to deal with. Our capabilities vary throughout our lives as we grow and age.
What is the value of an uninformed vote? It is potentially
destructive.
Those who are more informed will be
appalled when over ruled by those who are not. This
results, for practical reasons, in a separation or break
down of the community. Which defeats the whole purpose
and leads to community decay and eventually death.
The solution that evolved is a representative republic
where each individual remains sovereign. Individuals are
selected and elected to a group whose job it is to be
informed of the issues. The idea is to have better decision
making for the whole society. This should result in a
stronger community where the members and the society
23

Of, By and For the People
are more likely to survive. If the representative body fails
in its duty to represent the people and uphold their
Rights, it will face the will of the masses sooner or later
anyway. And it could get ugly.
These questions are important. I know of no so called
government on this planet, at this time, which allows
freedom or sovereignty. No one will give these to you or
me. I and you have to make that happen in our own lives
by thinking and doing, by being free and sovereign.
I want to create a new and better society out of the ashes.
One that does not necessarily war with the old order, but
can act as a galvanizing and sustaining force to unite and
free the Peoples of Earth. A social order that can be
duplicated, without strong central authority, in any community, by anyone. In short, a blueprint that can go viral
and begin to improve living conditions for everyone. A
system that is in harmony with Earth and Sol and the
natural order of life.
This community / society needs a short, correct name. One
which is not loaded with too much baggage and has global
appeal. What do you suggest? No 'ists or 'isms please and
not New World Order as the lips which have spoken that
term defile it.
A strong Declaration of Rights is essential to counter balance the power of a group over an individual.
When it comes to basic matters, where you do not have to
be an expert to understand the issue, the democratic principle where everyone votes does apply. For instance, a
group is elected which can then distill a decision and
24

Of, By and For the People
present it to all the people to vote on.
When a representative body needs a decision implemented, it is sometimes essential or even critical to build
consensus in the community first. This is human nature,
in my opinion, and not likely to change anytime soon.
Even when it is critical to the survival of the society, people do not like other person's decisions forced on them. By
gaining acceptance and building consensus first, everyone
becomes a willing participant. This can lead to a more
smooth and efficient process of implementation.
I would argue that major decisions affecting the whole
community would need to be put to a vote of the people in
order to prevent abuse of power by the representative
group.
But I am trying to define an organizational structure
which can apply locally and globally. The need is for
effective communication and coordinated action. Information needs to be shared. Communication is the key. The
free flow of information cannot be allow to be restricted.
What does not exist, at least in the States, is a true public
forum for debate. A public space is necessary for a community or society to function effectively.
We live in a time where there does not exist a Free Press.
The ZioNazis have made a big deal over the consolidation
of media. In the US, estimates are that 97% of all news
papers, publishing houses, radio stations, television stations, movie theaters, movie production studios, and
music publishing are owned or controlled by six conglomerates.
25

Of, By and For the People
This is a false front. In reality, there is only one mega
conglomerate. This is because of interlocking director
ships on each of these mega barf conglomerate's Board of
Directors. While I am referring to the US here, it is my
understanding that this pattern continues world wide.
These controllers are certainly not loyal to any nation and
are enemies of the People.
Maybe government is not the answer. Maybe it is not
even necessary at all. I wish.
The reality is we are under attack and still face an existential threat to our existence individually and as a
species. Like a chess game, there are some moves one
might like to make, but the immediate threat must be
dealt with first.
We must find a way to organize for our mutual defense. A
by product is that it should lead to a much higher standard of living than any of us have known before in this
world. United we are strong. Divided, we fall. We are in
free fall right now if anyone is paying attention.
What is necessary is a form of dispute resolution that is
fair and equitable.
When rights are declared, many laws do not need to be
written. I and you are free to act in Life, Liberty and the
Pursuit of Happiness, until it violates those very rights of
another. It is really that simple. Environmental pollution, for example is not illegal due to some law, but it is a
violation of the rights of others. It needs to be resolved in
that context.
26

Of, By and For the People
Age is a factor. A child needs to be protected from harm
and have Rights, but should not be held accountable to
the same degree as an adult.
At what age is a person an adult member of society?
Some would argue that no person should serve in the military defense of society without full rights as an adult.
This is basically about physical maturity. What about
mental maturity? Not everyone reaches physical or mental maturity at the same age in their lives. Who would
determine when mental maturity is reached?
I propose full adult rights begin when a person has completed 17 years. This is a compromise. Some young people will reach physical maturity at and earlier or later
age. It is important that a standard be fairly applied to
all.
The whole issue of mental maturity is too subjective.
Next thing we know, everyone has to pass some form of
politicized test to vote. This is not acceptable. If, some
day well into the future a mutually agreed upon objective
criteria can be set, then this issue can be addressed again.
Otherwise, just pick the age of eighteen, which is the completion of 17 years.
In dealing with the Rights of Children, it is a balance
between the Rights of a Parent and the Rights of a child.
Where the family structure is intact, the community
should not be allowed to interfere. But if a child is in an
abusive environment, they need to be able to seek help
outside that environment.
27

Of, By and For the People
When a child does seek help or another adult is aware of a
situation where a child would and should seek help but is
prevented, at what point is an intervention necessary? In
almost all cases, taking the child from their family is
more destructive then the situation they are in already.
Who would have the authority to do so anyway? If they
have temporary access to a safe haven, that could ease the
stress. Any intervention must be done with the purpose
of healing the situation.
One extreme, is the parent has full life and death authority over their children. The other extreme is when a child
has a small bruise from playing and is trying to manipulate their parents or accuses them falsely. The first case is
too barbaric and provides no protection of the Child's
Rights. The second case could lead to the destruction of a
family, and the violation of the Parent's Rights and result
in real harm to the life of the child, if there is an intervention.
If a person wants to have a healthy part of their body cut
off, they must make that decision when they are an adult.
Parents have no right to inflict such barbaric acts upon
their children as sexual mutilation. Anyone who does this
to a child and any parent that authorizes it would be held
accountable for a criminal act. That does not mean breaking up the family or necessarily jail time for the first
offense. The person actually committing this crime
should be dealt with severely. This has to stop.
If a parent is determined to have a pattern of violating
the rights of a their child or children, or commit serious
28

Of, By and For the People
injury, then yes, a warrant should be issued and they
would face a court for their actions and could result in jail
time.
I propose that each group of 20,000 people or less appoint
a small council of elders which only address these family
situations. They would maintain a safe haven for the
child to go to temporarily in an emergency. The council
would operate with the goal of healing the problem and
restoring the family unit.
29

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 3
Rights of the People
It is in this context that I suggest the following Rights.
The order they are presented is not so important. What is
important is the acceptance and actualization of all of
them in our personal lives. These Rights determine our
relationship with each other. With Rights comes Responsibility.
It is very important that the Rights, once accepted by an
individual, are applied to all People without regard to
their ethnicity, gender, age or location. In other words, a
person cannot expect to have Rights for themselves that
they would deny to another. If I have Rights, and I do,
then you have those Rights. It cannot be any other way.
Individuals who join me in consenting to the Rights of the
People may be called Citizens of this yet to be named
Global Community / Society.
Here is my list of Rights for all Humans Being on this
planet.
The word People is meant to represent all gender and ethnicity. Person is singular for People. Representative
Group or Groups refers to members of this Society. Community refers to living centers of members of this Society.
============================================
30

Of, By and For the People
01:
Each individual is unique and has a unique relationship with their Creator. Therefore the People have a
Right to their own beliefs, thoughts emotions and free
expression thereof, including in the Public Space.
02:
People have the Right to adorn, dress or not and
present themselves as they see fit.
03:
People retain the Right to their body and therefore
control of the consumption and use of foods and
medicines. This includes the right to be free of forced
medication, implantation, injection, medical procedure,
poison or otherwise be harmed. Children and babies have
the Right to not be sexually mutilated.
04:
A pregnant woman has the right to determine the
course of her own pregnancy.
05:
People have the right to choose their final exit from
the physical body as they deem appropriate.
06:
As Humans, we have a symbiotic relationship with
the cannabis plant. No person has the right to tax or
deny the use and cultivation of this most important plant.
The only known plant which by itself can sustain Human
life and civilization.
07:
People have the right to freedom of speech through
voice, song, writing or other art of self expression. How
ever, a Person can be held accountable if their speech or
self expression results in directly causing physical harm
or violates the Rights of another person.
08:
People have the Right to peaceably assemble with
out restriction.
31

Of, By and For the People
09:
People have the Right to be free of harmful sub
stances added to food, water, air and soil and other environmental pollution.
10:
People have the Right to a healthy and safe living,
working and playing environment. But they also have a
Right to take risks upon themselves, for one example
sporting activities which can never be totally free of danger or potential harm.
11:
People have the Right to full disclosure of information from any organization they participate in or organizational body created to meet the needs of a community.
12:
People have the right to access any data or information collected or stored regarding themselves by any per
son, group or organization. This includes the right to
challenge, amend and/or correct such information.
13:
People have the right to be secure in their person,
home, papers, thoughts, digital media, effects and private
communications, against unreasonable search and/or
seizure.
14:
People have a Right to self defense and to defend
others if necessary. Therefore People have the right to
keep and bear arms and learn martial arts. This is does
not include the use of excessive force. Weapons of mass
destruction, however, need to be under secure military
control.
15:
People have the Right to contract freely with others
as long as the enforcement of that contract or agreement
does not result in harm to the individual. Therefore, People have the Right to terminate their consent to a contract
or agreement. If a contract results in harm, or is expected
to harm the individual, that agreement may be invalidated immediately.
16:
People have a Right to access and/or use Public
Space. For example, a public space, like a park, cannot be
closed during certain times, for the purpose of restricting
access or open to some People, but not others.
17:
A duly appointed body created by community consensus may have only the powers specifically granted to
it. No group or organization may be granted powers
which result in the violation of the Rights of the People.
18:
If any Citizen shall accept, claim, receive, or retain
any title of nobility or honor, or accept and retain any
present, pension, office, or emolument of any kind what
ever, from any emperor, king, prince, or foreign power,
such person shall cease to be a Citizen of this Society, and
shall be incapable of holding any office of trust or profit
within this Society.
19:
People have the right to be quiet and to not accuse
themselves. This means forced confession and attempted
forced confession is expressly forbidden.
20:
People cannot be property. Involuntary servitude,
including taxation of labor or services rendered is
expressly prohibited.
21:
A group or organization of people is not a person
and cannot have legal standing as an actual person.
33

Of, By and For the People
22:
No single law created by any elected legislature can
be too long or complex. If it takes more than 20 minutes
for an average person to read and/or is not in clear,
straight, understandable language, that law is null and
void.
23:
Any elected person who votes to pass any law which
is deemed to violate this Bill of Rights is subject to recall
and a new election held for their office or seat in the
group as soon as is practical.
24:
A mother and father will have joint custody of their
children, even in a breakup, unless they agree to another
arrangement between themselves or through a mediator.
25:
A Person shall be free from double jeopardy. That
is we cannot be accused and a hearing held more than
once for the same offense. A single act cannot result in
multiple charges. One charge has to be chosen.
26:
A Person has the Right to Travel as is practical.
Public roads and public forms of transportation must be
available to all.
27:
A Person has the Right to be accused and brought
to trial only for acts which violate the Rights of another
Person. There has to be an actual injured party. Entrapment and Sting Operations are crimes in and of them
selves and the injured party is their target.
28:
No law or treaty can be valid which has not been
made public and read aloud at least three times, and
these public readings spaced apart in time at least one
day, before being voted for approval. Truthful authorship
34

Of, By and For the People
of any pending law or treaty has to be made public before
any vote for approval can take place.
29:
No treaty or binding agreement can be made by any
representative person or group in the name of this Society
which violates these Rights. Any treaties or binding
agreements made with a party outside this Society must
be made public and is subject to a vote for approval by the
entire global community with a two thirds majority before
it can take effect.
30:
This defining of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the People.
35

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 4
Role of the Community / Society
I present two entwined questions, the answers to them
define our relationship to each other:
What is the responsibility of a community to its members?
What is the responsibility of a member to the community?
My answer to that question may be a bit unorthodox, but
please bear with me on this. I present this example for
argument sake only.
=======================
I am a King of an ancient tradition. In this role every
morning I sense the mood of my People. As Sol (our Sun)
rises over the land and sea, the clean rivers and streams
run through towns and fields. My People are stirring in
their homes. I can hear the cries and laughter of children.
Fishermen have set out to sea, some are returning with
their catch. Farmers begin tending their fields. Merchants set up their shops. Blacksmiths are getting their
fires started. Bakers begin their days production. My
Army, always vigilant, guards and protects the realm.
My Navy patrols the harbors and ensures freedom of the
sea from pirates and raiders.
36

Of, By and For the People
There are no prisoners. Serious transgressors are executed and minor transgressors do not deserve prison.
There is almost no crime.
This day, is a good day. My people are happy. That
makes me feel a bit more at peace. Peace pervades the
land. My people are reasonably safe and secure.
The simple laws of the land are carved into stone pillars
for all to see. They do not change with the whim of the
King. I am as bound by them as everyone else. If I transgress, the People will know and I can no longer effectively
rule.
I have been taught from early youth to love my People
with all my heart and serve them with all my ability. It is
my duty to ensure no one goes hungry. To secure their
safety and well being. It is my duty to collect the greater
portion of all food produced. The food is brought into community storage to protect from famine and spoilage. Any
one of the Realm can come to the castle to dine at every
meal prepared twice daily. They can come to pick up food
to take home. That is what it is there for.
The healers serve everyone equally. All arms produced
are for the realm. The wealth of the kingdom belongs to
the People. The sign of Peace is the sharing of water.
=======================
I actually have memories of this time from an incarnation
over 2300 years ago, but that is besides the point. Some
of you might think me crazy for even saying these things.
I get that a lot, oh well.
37

Of, By and For the People
In this model, the government exists to serve and protect
the People. And the People serve the Realm. But what
could possibly go wrong? I think we all know. Hint: it did
not end well and certainly did not last unto the present
time.
OK, something messed up happened. Those great and
powerful laws written in stone were applied. Someone
was executed who was loved by the People and did not
deserve it, except under the law. The whole thing fell
apart. I can never express how much I regret this. If
there is anything I have learned it is what was stated
before, “People do not exist to serve the Law, Legitimate
Law exists to serve the People.” Just because it is written
or carved into stone that is not enough. I wish I had died
instead of her or prevented it from happening. Life is
more valuable and more important than strict application
of law. Sometimes the strict application of law is an
injustice. Sometimes injustice can have severe consequences.
Therefore this model is just not sustainable or acceptable
with self aware Humans Being. Good People will demand
more. I demand more. We are creatures of emotion. Too
much power vested in anyone is a recipe for failure. This
can happen for many reasons, even reasons beyond the
person playing the role. The role with too much power
becomes the object of intrigue and is coveted by individuals who by nature would be even less likely to handle the
role to the benefit of others. Anyone of us, every one of us
has our ups and downs. It is the role itself which is
granted too much power that is the problem.
38

Of, By and For the People
If we take this example from a more simple time when
this beautiful planet was still pure and unpolluted, and
replace “My” with “Our”. And replace “King” with “Elected
Representative(s)”, and remember the lesson about injustice, that is not too far from what kind of place I would
want to live. The whole execution thing is unjust by the
way.
Think about what kind of society you would like to live in.
It is the responsibility of the community to make sure
everyone's basic needs are met first. Period. We will
build a life and civilization upon that foundation.
I am a big fan of Peace. But I am willing to risk my life to
fight to protect that Peace if absolutely necessary. Even if
there were somehow Peace on Earth someday in the
future, Human experience over millions of years tells me
that our society must be always vigilant. This is a big
universe and time and space are not the barriers some of
you might think they are. Our species has very real enemies on and off this planet. You can trust me on this.
NEVER FORGET!
While it sucks to have to deal with, it is why pure anarchy
is not in our best interest, however desirable it may be.
Short of that, we have to serve each other and have
mutual respect to survive.
39

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 5
Justice?
Before going into the next chapter where the structure of
government is defined, I want to address the issue of Justice, because it does not exist today.
In the former united States, the entire judicial process
has been twisted and perverted to the point where only
members of a private club, the B.A.R. Association (British
Accredited Registry), of a foreign power control the whole
process for extortion and profit. Some call this the Judicial Mafia.
In order to prevent this distortion, abuse and tyranny,
anyone involved in the court process, and anyone who
might be elected or appointed to a representative body or
office, or otherwise serve in government, must be compelled under penalty of law, including threat of expulsion
from the society, to come clean about any and all group or
organizational affiliations. Right #18 needs to be applied
vigorously.
While it is a right to create and join a group, that does not
prevent law which would ban members of from holding
office. Membership and even former membership in an
organization which has oaths or commitments that have
even the perception of corrupting the offices of government is cause for ineligibility for office. I am talking
about secret loyalty oaths in particular. Laws could be
40

Of, By and For the People
passed to prevent even former members of such organizations for a specified period of time after renouncing membership, from serving in government.
By full disclosure, however, such laws do not need to be
created as the People will decide with their informed vote.
It is just a simple fact of history that secret and not so
secret societies have taken over entire nations and have
used that capacity to act against the People.
Any secret affiliations of members of government must be
treated as treason on the face of it. I am talking about
formal secret organizations or clubs. Not belief systems
or philosophy.
The former united States has devolved into a fascist police
state where millions of citizens languish in prison or on
parole for merely political and trivial reasons. A Pew
Center on States announced that in 2008 at least 2.3 Mil
lion were currently imprisoned at a cost of $49 Billion. I
am pretty sure that does not count the “secret prisons”. It
does not count all the People killed by police. I does not
count the many millions more who have been imprisoned
the years before or since. I have seen numbers as low as
5% have actually committed a violent crime. Even these,
how many were self defense? It is big business. It is an
abomination. I think it is over half the population has
been arrested or harassed and or beaten by police at least
once in their lives. I was all but murdered by a sociopath
cop in San Diego when I was serving in the Navy. No,
there was not even the slightest provocation and I was
with about eight other men who witnessed this.
41

Of, By and For the People
It would be a just act to destroy these prisons and release
the victims. This issue really, pisses me off. It has to
stop. You sick individuals who play prison guard need to
decide if you are in support of freedom and justice and
take appropriate action or just deserve to be charged and
tried for your crimes against humanity. There is nothing
much more contemptible than a for profit private prison
or the many business who exploit the victims of this criminal enterprise for cheap labor.
All of the drug possession and use laws are an abomination. In countries all over this planet, illegitimate governments routinely execute people for drug or plant or even
fungus possession, distribution and sale. I could write a
whole set of books on just that subject.
The imprisonment of an individual must be an extreme
last resort. It can only be justly considered in circumstances where the individual is determined by a fair hearing to be an immediate threat to the health and safety of
another or the community itself. Even then, the objective
needs to be the healing of the person who has gone so far
astray.
Police world wide summarily execute people. That is a
big reason why the right to self defense, to protect others
and to keep and bear arms shall not be abolished. These
individuals seem to serve the whims of the oligarchs like
mindless automatons. Guess what their masters want to
and are replacing them with? Yup, robots, mindless
robots. Cause of thing called free will in Humans Being,
they fear their minions will wake up and implement justice on them. I suggest they hurry and wake up.
This crap of being arrested and imprisoned for political
and trivial acts, even “thought crimes” has only made the
police force the subject of scorn, hatred and contempt by
decent people. Though the Sheriff is an elected office with
great power, they generally always cower to the will of
some corrupt, sociopath judge. They should be arresting
these traitors.
The truth is mixed, some candidates for employ by the
various police forces are selected because they are
sociopath. Others, especially older police joined to per
form a vital and legitimate public service. These guys
often have their hands tied and are not allowed to fulfill
their just role. An officer of the People has to be able to
exercise their judgment to be effective and serve the public interest.
Messed up, illegitimate laws are most of the problem. But
it is important that men and women worthy of the trust
the role entails are selected and promoted. All police need
to be monitored by the society. Cameras, microphones,
video, holographic recording, you name it. Shine the light
on the public officials for their own protection. If they act
justly in the Public Trust, the People will protect them. If
they do not, justice will seek them out.
What I consider corrupt is not just the taking of bribes,
but using the office to conspire against and violate the
Rights of the People. When People peaceably assemble
and a militarized force is organized, with their violent,
mentally and spiritually sick agent provocateurs, this is
43

Of, By and For the People
very high crime.
I realize that most of the readers and listeners already
know. About 15% of us are not as easily mind controlled.
This book is speaking to the enlightened among us but it
is also for the remaining 85% who are waking from their
electromagnetic and chemically induced walking dream.
Everyone is an individual and liberation comes one person
at a time. So a word for those of you deep in the belly of
the Beast: At what point are you who are part of this
criminal operation going to stand up for yourself, your
family, your fellow Humans Being? When will you
destroy the “command center” and refuse to blindly serve
the sick reptile minded traitors? Um, they will turn on
you too. You do know that? Right?
Are you a coward at heart? Cause it looks like that to the
whole planet. The brave are the People you are attacking.
We all know it. Do you not want to break free of the
crushing mind control you have been attacked and manipulated by? Did you know that in all organized attacks on
the People, the minions who were conned into these criminal acts are almost always executed by their masters?
Study history of Russia, Germany, China and others.
Then know you are serving the very same masters who
killed hundreds of millions in those “social revolutions”.
What happened always happens after your role is played.
You who are the enforcers, who for obvious reasons can
not be trusted, were next.
Some of you were real people at one time, free thinking,
independent souls who yearned for freedom. It is within
44

Of, By and For the People
your reach, but you have to defeat the enemy within.
What if you just crossed the line and joined the People?
Send a message of your courage and strength that way.
Of course you will have to do something meaningful,
something tactical to gain the respect of the People. I am
not asking you to harm anyone, just come up with a creative way to stop these attacks on We the People. We all
must do our part.
While on the subject of justice, I have to say a word about
nonviolence. I am a man of Peace. Plain and simple.
That is how I want it to be. I hope you can accept that. I
am becoming a small minority. The sleeping giant has
been awoken. If the actual Humans Being who blindly
serve their reptilian masters cannot deal with me and
those like me, you can deal with those who can no longer
hold it in and are compelled to counter attack. They know
who you are. As you know, there are no secrets. I will
only spread information. Since they are acting in self
defense, there is no real penalty for them.
Do you realize that hundreds of millions of people have no
retreat? I cannot stop them any more than you can.
Think before it is too late for you. It is not like you have
anything going for you. You have nothing to gain where
you are at. When you finally get it, this is an inter
species war, and guess what? You are way more like me
than them. How do you think this will play out? Even if
you win, you lose. Because the individuals who you serve
know that you are a Human Being and they only appear
to be. Psychics can see their real form. When the power
grid goes down and the electromagnetic matrix collapses,
45

Of, By and For the People
so will everyone. If you think I don't know, then why am I
risking my temporal body to tell you?
I know the value of a person who has been deep in the
counsel of the enemy and chooses to be forgiven, chooses
their freedom. You are valuable assets to the cause of our
species.
There is a very interesting person name Ineila Benz. She
has incarnated on this planet at this time to help to raise
the vibrational frequency of this entire Gaia organism
whose body we exist within. I recommend finding her
work. I may help to mellow things out on both sides.
In the United States, and from what I can tell most of the
world as well, Judges have de-facto immunity from prosecution for their treasonous acts. This is absolutely not
acceptable. It can and will come to an end. Their end it
looks like. Just saying what I see. I am convinced it is
only through conspiracy that this has happened in the
first place.
It is much more egregious for a person appointed to a
position of public trust to violate the Rights of the People
than someone who is not in the role of public trust.
Therefore the restitution and/or other penalty should be
greater for those individuals. That also means a person
cannot be compelled against their will to serve in a position of public trust.
No public official shall enjoy any greater Rights or privileges than is enjoyed by the People. This business of a
judge dressing in robes or weird wigs and such, sitting
higher and being made inaccessible to the People is inherently unjust and unacceptable. All the judge can legitimately do is conduct the hearing, manage it, and make
recommendations to the jury, which always need to be
there.
The facade has worn off. The illusion of legitimacy has
disappeared. Judges and prosecutors are the most corrupt of all public officials today. Police are all too often
their enabling tools. They also enable the criminal, treasonous acts of the legislature and executive branches.
The judicial systems in most of the world are beneath con
tempt, I cannot call this branch of government Judicial.
The hyper-inflated ego of these judges. I have to stop. My
anger overflows.
No jury or judge should conform to the letter of the law if
they deem it unjust. That is the whole point of a trial by
jury. Law exists to serve the People, not the other way
around. If it appears to be unjust, then it should not be
applied or nullified altogether. Keeping public records of
all hearings world wide will help clean up bad laws. Laws
can be made with the best of intentions and turn out to be
impractical or to be not such a good idea in actual practice.
No matter how screwed up the individual is though, there
needs to be some way for them to make their restitution
and / or complete their penalty. We all need a chance at
redemption when we screw up. Just this policy alone
would eliminate the motivation for some crimes of desperation.
47

Of, By and For the People
Along this line of reasoning, what is up with people who
want to make more and more laws with greater punishments? In this country, law is arbitrarily applied, which
is to say there is no rule of law here. These people must
believe that the crap they consider law only applies to others and not themselves. Unfortunately, that turns out to
be all too true.
Because there is no real recourse to legitimate law, even I
have to fight the real motivation to take matters into my
own hands. But then, I become the bad guy, right? My
patience is wearing thin, and I am a man of peace, so I am
sure others feel compelled to cross that line and more will
every day.
But that is all part of the plan. As David Icke eloquently
points out it is like this: Create the problem, Cause a
reaction, and then be ready with a Solution. This “Solution” inevitably advances the agenda of the criminal cabal
who created the problem. The agenda is depopulation of
85% of We the People and to microchip and enslave the
survivors. Been going on for a while now. I am sure those
of you who are not too fluoridated up are already well
aware of this.
This is a word of warning to those who want to use violence in reaction to the horrible injustice you have experienced. Not only have you been provoked and manipulated
into that response, but what do think will be created?
The end does not justify the means. The means is an end
in itself. Violence occurs only when the imagination has
failed to find a more effective and creative solution. They
48

Of, By and For the People
are out there. I challenge all of you who want to fight for
truth and justice for our People to demonstrate your mental, spiritual and moral superiority. Be creative. Be effective. But if you induce too much fear in the criminal elite
and their minions, they will just band together more
strongly. Make sure you give them an out, a way to save
face. Reduce their numbers and increase ours.
The Court System in the new Society will be much different than what everyone is confronted with today.
As you review the Structure of Government, Court System section, keep in mind that in the Spirit of Thomas
Jefferson, it is better for 10 guilty persons to go free than
for one innocent person to be falsely convicted.
The object of the game for me is to reduce stress. Peace
reduces stress. There cannot be Peace without Justice.
Less stress will reduce the motivation for aggressive
and/or criminal behavior.
We can devolve into chaos, mass death and destruction or
choose to create and build a new Society which works at a
local and global level. One that is decentralized with
checks on all forms of power to guarantee the protection
and safety of the People.
49

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 6
Governmental Structure
The goal is to create a system which is sustainable, truly
Of, By and For the People. It must prevent concentration
of power in the hands of a few. One which can be implemented in communities on a global scale.
This is a high level overview. The many details remain to
be worked out.
Transparency
The base of power is the informed individual. To this end,
government operations need to be transparent to the people they serve. There are basically three ways to accomplish this.
1)
An actual free press. We all know how a publication can spin, twist, distort, honest error and outright lie.
By ensuring there is competition in the media consumers
of the media will be able to discern the truth. Keep in
mind there will be actual professional reporters and journalists, something Americans and other people dealing
with authoritarian regimes are not used to. There will be
no more quotes from unnamed “official sources”. This is a
pathetic fraud. Real reporters will not reprint propaganda without question, comment or analysis, as most of
the world is used to now.'
50

Of, By and For the People
To this end, consolidation of media will not be allowed.
Due to the different economic model, a single individual
will not own or control any organization. All members of
an organization, will have say in the running of their
place of work.
An organization would not be allowed to have more than
one of each type of media per community or population
center. That is one television, radio, newspaper, magazine, publishing house, movie production studio and theater per population center. There will likely be new forms
of media developed and suppressed media technology
made available, the same principals will apply.
2)
All civilian government meetings, court hearings,
councils, etc will be open to public view by Citizens of this
Society. We currently live in a total global surveillance
society. In this model, it is government that is subject to
surveillance and it will not have to be hidden.
The military has legitimate need for operational secrecy,
but it is subject to civilian government resource allocation
control and oversight. It will not be an offense for a member of our military organization to report criminal wrong
doing to members of our legislature or executive branch.
Branches of Government
The Constitution of the united States defines three
branches of government. Many other nations have an
executive, legislative and court system branch. Even
when three branches are not clearly defined, these roles
still exist.
51

Of, By and For the People
Our Society will have four separate branches of government, with two tiers, local and global. The global body
will not have direct taxation authority except inter-world commerce. Otherwise the Global Government will be
funded by money creation and revenues paid by Local
Area Governments. The primary need for taxation will be
to fund the single world military and global infra
structure.
These four branches are: Executive, Legislative, Courts
and Fair Witness.
No individual may serve in more than one branch of government or the military at the same time. This must be
strictly enforced, a choice must be made publicly when
this situation occurs.
The first tier or Local Area Government is made up of all
four branches. The second tier, the Global Government is
both representative of the Local Area Governments and
the People for the entire planet. This will also have four
branches, however the roles and responsibilities are different.
This flattened hierarchy model will maximize efficiency
and control by Citizens. It is important to minimize
regional factionalism. To this end, the main purpose of
the Global Government will be to resolve disputes and
prevent conflict between Local Area Governments. A middle tier of government would serve no useful purpose and
further distance the People from a more representative
government at the global level. Middle tiers would also
compete for authority allotted to the Local Area and
52

Of, By and For the People
Global governmental bodies and add dramatically to the
cost of government.
Cost efficiency of government is critical. What we are
used to today will become a dark period in our history, not
to be repeated. The pay for government officials must be
consistent with the rest of society. If the pay is too high,
the position may be coveted, if the pay is too low, the most
qualified may remain in the private sector.
The intent is Local Area Government for each major population center which would include rural populations in the
surrounding area. Boundaries are to be based on one primary factor, the ratio of representation between the citizen and their governing areas. In areas of high population density, for instance along coastlines, there will be
more Local Area Governments than in less densely populated areas. The size in population should not exceed
20,000,000, or be smaller than 2,000,000. These number
cannot be fixed at this time, but experience, practicality
and public discourse will produce proper ratios.
The most densely populated areas, the biggest cities of
today, are a tremendous burden on resources. There can
be no mandate to force People to relocate. When the cur
rent gross injustice in wealth inequality is no longer a
problem, as our social structures are implemented, People
will have more options to relocate as desired. I predict
less population density will be one of the results.
One factor that exists and is likely to increase dramatically is the mobility of the population. When there is an
election, a citizen must be able to vote in whatever local
53

Of, By and For the People
area they currently reside. Migratory groups will not lack
representation. Elections for the Global Government will
not be a problem as Citizenship is for the single world
government.
With implementation of suppressed energy technology, it
will be easier for planned communities to develop in currently uninhabited areas, further reducing population
density by offering quality alternatives. High speed
global public transit will also contribute to more diffuse
population centers.
Current political borders should be disregarded. Most are
completely arbitrary and not natural. Using natural
boundaries such as coastlines, rivers and mountain
ranges is practical. Using ethnic populations in defining
local areas of government is not a valid criteria and does
not promote peace.
If a Local Area Government gets too big, it would be possible for it to divide itself into two Local Area Governments.
It would take a full public vote put to the People by the
Legislature and approval of the Executive. Such a move
would require a two thirds majority.
The following is a very minimal outline. It is a bit outside
the scope of this book to go beyond that. I will be happy to
flesh in more detail in subsequent articles and books.
This outline is to provide a minimal working model and
promote widespread discussion. I will likely be dead soon,
whether is it today or 20 years from now, this gift is for
those who will live in it. Input, consensus building, etc.
has to happen.
54

Of, By and For the People
Concerning null and void Treaties. It has come to my
attention that various nonhuman groups have made
“secret treaties” with various illegitimate governments.
They are generally in the form of technology in exchange
for the abductions of We the People. Some victims have
suffered horribly and then been eaten. Some have been
used in all manner of genetic experiments. Some have it
even worse, their souls are literally captured electromagnetically and imprisoned. In all of these, We the People
are considered exploitable property.
Not only are these treaties made with the worst criminal
elements, not all of which are Humans Being themselves
by the way, but any Treaty or agreement made in secret is
automatically a fraud and nonbinding on We the People.
Any Treaty or agreement made that violates our Declared
Rights is null and void on the face of it. These malevolent
entities use the agreements to con and deceive the fools
they made them with. They act as though somehow these
criminal acts have been made acceptable with willing con
sent. But they are not acceptable and the People have not
consented. We are NOT Property. We the People are at
war with these piece of shit entities operating through
subterfuge and deceit.
55

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 7
Executive Branch
The Executive branch of government is primarily administrative in nature.
All meetings need to have the presence of the Certified
Fair Witness or Witnesses as appropriate.
It is responsible for:
1)
Protecting the Natural Environment. While any
Citizen has the right to seek a hearing for environmental
pollution, this would happen only when the Executive
administration has failed in its responsibility. If the
administration consistently fails in its duty, the appropriate individuals may be recalled from office or appointment. The positions would be filled again, with greater
scrutiny.
Such abominations of nature as fracking which is basically designed for the purpose of destroying underground
aquifers and creating geologic instability; clear cutting of
forests which destroys too much habitat and disregards
the role of trees, especially old trees, which create
weather stability among other things; mining operations
which are too destructive such as mountain top removal
or large scale strip mining; application of toxic chemicals
to farms; runoff of waste to the point of polluting lakes
and streams; toxic waste from manufacturing; electromagnetic pollution and more; all fall under the role of Protecting the Natural Environment.
This is not intended to stop extraction of natural
resources, but to make such extraction conform to standards which are respectful of life. Better living through
technology.
It may be impossible to prevent the creation, in practical
terms, of toxic substances. But these toxic substances
must be rendered stable or broken down to safe components using technology before release into our natural
environment. Clean up of the existing horrors which have
been inflicted also need to be performed or coordinated by
the Executive.
2)
Tracking of all Citizens for the purpose making
sure they receive their payment from the Treasury.
Ensuring payments are not intercepted, extorted or made
in error. Citizens do not have to have legal names. Each
individual has a unique vibrational frequency. Papers
and other forms of identification such as micro-chipping
are not required or allowed to even be considered. We are
all currently monitored by satellite by our unique wave
signature. This technology will be captured and applied
to beneficial use.
3)
Ensuring free and fair elections take place on
schedule and by process as defined by the Legislature.
Voting rights cannot be taken away as punishment. This
has been used as a political tool routinely in the former
united States and other countries. If there are so many
prisoners that anyone is worried they have a vote, that is
57

Of, By and For the People
all the more reason why they need a vote.
Fund raising for political campaigns by elected officials
will not be allowed. History has proven over and over
again that there is really no more of a corrupting influence on government than this. Political Campaigns will
be conducted in the Public Space and by the willing acts
of Citizens who may speak, wear signage on clothing,
write, publish, etc. There are many ways to conduct a
political campaign without the massive fraud, waste,
abuse and political corruption some of us know all too well
today.
I am sick of the pathetic truth the we get the best government money can buy. This has to stop. And it has to stop
on a global scaled to be effective.
The Executive, in ensuring free and fair elections will provide and ensure open public forums for debate. No candidate will be excluded for lack of currency. The disenfranchised and outcasts will no longer be. Political party affiliation cannot be required to run for elected office. A level
field of play will allow Citizens from all walks of life and
all ethnicity an even chance to campaign, to be heard, to
get elected to office.
4)
Collecting moneys as appropriate by legislation for
the public Treasury.
5)
Full public accounting of all Treasury accounts and
spending.
6)
Ensuring the Rights of the People are protected.
58

Of, By and For the People
7)
The Executive has the duty to veto any legislation
which it deems to violate the Rights of the People. This is
the second check on bad law.
8)
Implementing processes, organizations, and infra
structure projects as per appropriate legislation. Some
public service jobs will be employees of the Executive.
Some will be performed by chartered organizations where
the Executive, with prior Legislative authority will setup,
staff and launch these chartered organization which will
then be more or less autonomous.
9)
Performing a police role including criminal investigation using technology when necessary. Police will not
have authority to issue orders to Citizens. They will be
generally respectful to and in return respected and sup
ported by the People.
10)
Enforcing the will of the Courts.
11)
Take responsibility for prisoners and the healing
needed to complete their restitution and penalty. When a
Citizen has completed their penalty, the role of the executive will be judged by how well the convicted person is
able to restore themselves into public Society. A civilization may be effectively judged by the conditions of their
prisons and by how few prisoners there are. There will be
no such thing as a for profit or private prison. Prisoners
will not be treated like slaves or cheap labor for profit.
12)
Be responsible for Prisoners of war. Maltreatment
is not allowed and will be a punishable offense. This
reflects on our whole Society. It has dramatic effect
regarding the length and even intensity of a conflict.
59

Of, By and For the People
Local Area Government Executive Branch
Here are the primary offices of the Executive. These
offices are directly elected by the People of the Local Area
Government on the regular three year election cycle.
First Executive:
Senior administrator of the Executive Branch of the Local
Area Government, its services, facilities and operations.
Does not have authority to remove elected officials from
office.
Recommends two candidates for the Global Legislative
Senate to Local Area Legislature for approval to represent
the Local Area Government.
May Sign or Veto bills or laws approved by the Local Area
Government House of Representative.
Second Executive:
Fills in for First Executive when needed. Is elected on the
same ticket as First Executive. Usually the one who does
the real work. While their boss is giving speeches or making public ceremonial appearances.
Treasurer:
Maintains the Public Treasury.
Ensures proper accounting, spending, payments and
keeps public records on all monies.
Administers taxation as appropriate by law.
60

Of, By and For the People
Sheriff:
Basically the top law enforcement administrator in whose
department police authority is vested. This includes criminal investigation.
Environmental Protector:
Responsible for the proper access to natural resources.
Proactively tests and monitors for pollution.
Receives environmental complaints from Citizens which
may result in further investigation.
Initiates and Conducts environmental complaint investigations.
Ensures weather modification technology is applied in the
best interest of all Citizens within the Local Area Government. This includes making sure destructive storms miss
population centers and are reduced in intensity if needed
for the safety of Citizens. Pretty much the opposite of
how the technology is used today.
Global Government Executive Branch
Responsible for global infrastructure and projects.
Space exploration and other civilian off-planet operations.
Facilitate trade with other civilizations on, in or off
planet.
Protect the Rights of the People.
The Global Government Executive branch will consist of
the following elected offices:
61

Of, By and For the People
First Executive:
Senior administrator of the Executive Branch of the
Global Government, its services, facilities and operations.
Does not have authority to remove elected officials from
office.
Appoints Senior Military Officer pending approval of the
Global Legislative Senate.
Primary civilian oversight of the Military.
May Sign or Veto bills or laws approved by the Global
Legislature.
Second Executive:
Fills in for First Executive when needed. Is elected on the
same ticket as First Executive. Usually the one who does
the real work. While their boss is giving speeches or making public ceremonial appearances.
Treasurer:
Maintains the Public Treasury.
Ensures proper accounting, spending, payments and
keeps public records on all monies.
Administers taxation as appropriate by law.
Administers payment to all Citizens.
Secretary of Embassy
Senior Diplomat.
Political role which represents the World Government
of Humans Being to other civilizations and world governments, councils and such.
Appoints Ambassadors to other Civilizations on, in and off
planet.
Hosts foreign dignitaries and official envoys.
Reports to the First Executive, the Senate and House of
Representatives of the Global Government.
Coordinates management of all Embassies and staff.
Facilitates embassy communications and communications
security.
Coordinates with the military to protect and secure
embassies.
Submit Treaties for approval to the Global Legislature.
Sign or veto approved Treaties before being put to a two
thirds vote for approval by all of the Citizens.
Sheriff:
Responsible for the police role within the Global Government. If a district is created to host said government,
would have police authority within that district.
Responsible for coordination with the local Sheriffs for
Inter-Local Area Government crime and/or criminal
investigation.
Ensures best practices are shared between Local Area
Government Sheriff departments.
Liaison with other civilization's police authority.
Criminal investigation authority within the Global Government.
63

Of, By and For the People
Environmental Protector:
Responsible for coordinating the proper access to natural
resources were those resources are between or across
Local Area Governments.
First point of dispute resolution regarding resources
between Local Area Governments.
Coordinates global resources such as ocean fishing management for example, based on objective criteria.
Responsible for Environmental Protection in areas of this
planet outside of any Local Government Area.
Proactively tests and monitors for pollution on a global
scale. Includes the consolidation of data collected by the
Local Environmental Protectors. Ensures the free flow of
such information and access to all Citizens.
Receives environmental complaints from Citizens which
may result in further investigation on a global scale.
Initiates and Conducts environmental investigations on a
global scale.
Ensures weather modification technology is applied in the
best interest of all Citizens across the Local Area Governments. This includes making sure major or destructive
storms miss population centers and are reduced in intensity if needed for the safety of Citizens. Pretty much the
opposite of how the technology is used today.
The main difference between the Global and Local Area
Environmental Protector is it deals on a world scale
versus a local scale.
64

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 8
Legislative Branch
The Legislative Branch of government will have two tiers.
A House of Representatives for each Local Area Government and the Global Government. The Global Government will also have a Senate to represent the Local Area
Governments.
All laws passed must conform to the Rights of the People
without exception.
This is not a parliament. All officials elected to office hold
their seats. Not a number of seats per political party
whose occupancy is assigned by that political party. Candidates do not have to have any party affiliation.
Each Legislative body has authority to appoint its officers,
create subcommittees and set its rules of operation.
The large number of seats in the Houses of Representatives is essential to proper representation of the People.
The inherent inefficiencies are on purpose to restrict the
creation of new laws.
The Legislature has authority to set rules for and authorization of Chartered Organizations within their jurisdictions.
The Legislature is the main governing and decision making body.
65

Of, By and For the People
All hearings must be public or the proceeding published
or made public soon after.
All meetings are null and void without the presence of the
Certified Fair Witness or Witnesses as appropriate.
The Houses of Representatives have authority to define
representative districts for seats in the house. These districts must be simple defined areas, no contorted districts.
Each Legislative body has authority to conduct investigative hearings relative to their jurisdictions, and compel
witnesses to appear.
Each Legislative body is responsible for resource allocation within their jurisdiction.
The Local Area Government House of Representatives:
Represents the People of that Local Area Government.
Members will be directly elected with one representative
per 20,000 adult Citizens. The number of seats may
change with each election cycle based on demographics.
The Legislature does not have the authority to arbitrarily
reduce or increase the number of seats.
The elections will take place every three years on the normal election cycle. The entire House will be up for election at each cycle.
This legislative body is charged with passing spending
legislation which it is the duty of the executive to implement after signing if not vetoed.
66

Of, By and For the People
Spending cycles may be annual, biannual or tri-annual
as determined by each Local Area Legislature.
Major office appointments by the First Executive are subject to approval of the Legislative House (Local Area Government).
Has power to impeach members of the Local Area Government Executive and Court System for cause.
Global Government Legislature
Military oversight and resource allocation.
All manner of Global Standards including weights, measures and time keeping. This includes setting up a new
calendar. May create and charter measurement standards organization(s) subject to control of the People.
Laws which define the details of the Governmental Structure and Procedure.
Laws of Global Commerce.
Laws of Global Infrastructure.
Charter organizations whose primary operations are in
space, inner Earth, Outer Space or which provide services
on a world scale or otherwise beyond the scope of
Local Area Government.
Authorize currency creation on an annual, bi-annual or tri-annual basis.
Will consist of two bodies:
Global Senate:
Represents the Local Area Governments.
67

Of, By and For the People
Candidates will have been nominated by the First Executive and voted for approval by the Local Area Government
Legislature and serve a six year term.
Each Local Area Government will have two Senate seats,
regardless of their populations. These may vote for each
other in the case of absence of one, with their consent.
One of the two seats will be up for appointment every
three years alternately. Appointment to this body will
occur 30 days prior to the standard election cycle. The reasoning is officials will have had three years to know more
what is going on. Provides stability and continuity.
Approve major administrative appointments of the First
Executive and Ambassador appointments of the Secretary
of Embassy.
Hold impeachment hearings of the elected offices of the
Global Executive and Judicial branch.
Must approve or not any legislation passed to it after
approval by the Global House of Representatives.
Approval of Treaties drafted and approved by the First
Executive by a two thirds majority before sending to the
Global House of Representatives.
Global House of Representatives:
This house will represent the People with one seat for
every 2,000,000 (two million) adult Citizens. If the population is 5 billion, that is 2,500 representatives.
The number of seats may change with each election cycle
if the voting population changes. Due to the way public
68

Of, By and For the People
records will be kept, and the Fair Witness branch of government, these numbers will always be publicly available
and known.
All spending laws must originate with this body, then
sent to the Senate for approval.
Approval of Treaties passed by the Global Senate by a two
thirds majority which are then submitted to the Secretary
of Embassy.
69

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 9
Court System Branch
The Court System must be transparent and open to the
public. There will be no such thing as secret evidence or
testimony.
This Court System will have Conductors of the Court and
Public Arbitrators. They will be in charge of the Court
process and conducting hearings.
There are three types of Court in this system. A Certified
Fair Witness will be assigned to each Court and must be
present for any proceeding to take place.
Major Court:
Where a Citizen is charged with a serious offense, as
defined by the Legislature. This could result in serious
penalty and restitution.
Minor Court:
Where a Citizen is charged with a minor offense, as
defined by the Legislature. This could result in minor
penalty and restitution.
Contract Court:
This is where issues between Parties who have a contractual dispute or other disagreement which needs to be
70

Of, By and For the People
resolved are heard.
This court has no Jury, Rights of the People Guarantor or
defendant. An elected skilled Arbitrator will be presented
with the case and render a decision. That decision will be
binding.
With our two tiered system of government, each Local
Area Government will have jurisdiction within their area.
The structures defined below pertain to the Local Area
Government.
Conductor of the Court:
This is an elected office. Elections for Conductor of the
Court will be held on the standard three year cycle, with
approximately half of the offices up on each cycle.
Each term will be for a period of six years. This is to provide stability, promote impartiality and professionalism.
They must be selected for integrity and leadership skills.
There will be no term limits. If a community finds a good
Conductor of the Court, they will want to keep them in
that office for as long as they are willing to serve.
The Conductor of the Court will be expected to keep up on
legislation.
They will not write Rulings. Each case will come down to
a vote of the Jury. They will not interpret law as now,
because the laws will be short, simple and in clear language as per the Rights of the People.
The Conductor of the Court will wear a Colored Sash to
denote their role and the type of court they are conducting
71

Of, By and For the People
as determined by the Legislature.
Each Conductor of the Court will have authority to make
recommendations to the Legislature as to whether a law
should be modified or abolished based on their practical
experience and expertise.
Each Conductor of the Court will have full authority to
manage the process including:
Determining in which type of court the case should be
heard.
Advise the jury, clarify issues and answer their questions.
Dismiss a case, even abolish a Jury Ruling if they deter
mine that to be the just course of action. This may also be
required in the case gross Jury misconduct. That is why
it is an elected office. Someone has to be in a position to
make that call to prevent injustice. They cannot have
their hands tied and be expected to deliver on the promise
of Justice.
The authority to have a Jury member or spectator
removed from the hearing for misconduct.
The authority to declare a mistrial for cause and a new
hearing convened as soon as possible. If there is a schedule of court hearing, this retrial must take priority.
Rights of the People Guarantor:
This is an Elected office with elections held on the standard three year election cycle.
Has investigative authority and presents evidence to a
Warrant Jury within the Local Area Government when a
72

Of, By and For the People
violation of Rights, which is a crime, occurs.
Is the watchdog of the Sheriff and other Executive Branch
officials for the People to protect from abuse of office.
May presents evidence for impeachment of a Local Area
Government official to be removed from office to the legislative body.
Public Arbitrator:
This is an elected office with elections held on the standard three year election cycle. No term limits should be
imposed. If a community finds a talented Public Arbitrator, they will want to keep them in that office for as long
as they are willing to serve.
Presides over Contract Court.
The Public Arbitrator will wear a Colored Sash to denote
their role as determined by the Legislature.
Each Public Arbitrator will have authority to manage the
process including:
Dismiss a case if they determine that to be the just course
of action.
The authority to have a Person removed from the hearing
for misconduct.
Major and Minor Court structure:
Each Major and Minor Court will have an attendant from
the Executive Branch, in a police role to support the Conductor of the Courts and enforce the decision of the Jury.
73

Of, By and For the People
In a Major Court the Jury will consist of nine Citizens
plus three alternates. The alternates would only vote in a
replacement role. This is to cover dismissals and excused
absences like hospital, family emergency and such.
In a Minor Court the Jury will consist of five Citizens plus
two alternates.
Both Courts will also have:
A Guarantor of Rights and their staff.
One Certified Fair Witness, who may have an apprentice
and/or staff assistant.
One defendant at a time please for the sake of fairness.
Warrant Jury
A Warrant Jury will be impaneled from the normal Jury
pool, on an as needed basis for the purpose of issuing
Warrants. It will consist of nine Citizens.
This process should not take long so no alternate jurors
are necessary.
A Rights of the People Guarantor convenes the Warrant
Jury.
A Certified Fair Witness must be in attendance.
Evidence and testimony will be presented to them by a
Rights of the People Guarantor on behalf of an injured
party. The jurors may question the witnesses. If it
appears insufficient information is presented, the jury
should vote against issuing a warrant.
74

Of, By and For the People
For a Warrant to be issued, it must be clearly based upon
probable cause that Rights have been violated. It must be
supported by oath or affirmation. It must particularly
describe the place to be searched, and the persons or
things to be seized.
If a Warrant is issued, it is handed over to the Executive
Branch representative who is acting in a police role.
It will take a vote with two thirds majority to issue a War
rant for search and/or seizure or a Warrant for Arrest
and/or for charges to be brought against a Citizen compelling them to appear in a Major or Minor Court.
While these hearing may be conducted without a public
audience, all evidence and accusation must be made public soon after the fact.
The accused has the Right to be informed of the nature
and cause of the accusation. The accused has the Right to
be confronted with the witnesses against him in a Major
or Minor Court.
Reasonable Search and/or Seizure and Arrest
A Warrant is required for search and/or seizure of evidence. A separate Warrant is required for the arrest of a
Citizen.
Keep in mind that each Citizen may be located anywhere
on the globe by their unique wave signature using satellite technology. There is little fear of escape from justice.
In our Society, casual arrest is not allowed. Because of
the comprehensive nature of tracking technology these
75

Of, By and For the People
proper safeguards must be in place and respected.
At some point in the near future, I sincerely believe based
on my own analysis, that psychic powers of mind will
exceed even the best physical tracking technology. It will
become very difficult for anyone to commit a crime
against another without being made known.
Major and Minor Court procedure:
The accused has the Right to be confronted with the witnesses against him in a Major or Minor Court.
All hearings need to be held as soon as is reasonable. The
hearing need to be short, not long and drawn out.
The accused shall have the right to a fair hearing. This
means, by an impartial Jury with due process as is out
lined. The accused, will have a compulsory process for
obtaining witnesses who might prove or aid their defense.
The accused has the Right to the Assistance of Counsel
for their defense. Their choice of Counsel shall not be limited to members of any group or organization, but be a
person who is a member of this Society, is willing and is
chosen by the accused for their defense.
Any evidence and witnesses must be made known to each
side at least three working days before a hearing. Longer
if deemed necessary by the Conductor of the Court.
The accused person may not be compelled to testify and
may refuse to answer specific questions which may implicate themselves even when they do testify.
76

Of, By and For the People
Anyone who is found to knowingly present false evidence
or testimony or withhold key evidence should be charged
with a criminal offense. The severity of the offense is relative to the severity of the of the case being heard. Proper procedures need to be followed and a Warrant Jury presented with evidence first.
There will be opening and closing statements by both
sides.
Each side may call witnesses which may be questioned by
both sides alternately.
The Conductor of the Court may question witnesses as in
their role, they may have the wisdom to ask discerning
questions missed by others. This is not a game between
members of a private club where the actual Citizens are
more like spectators and have little or no say. The object
of the Court is justice, not financial gain like it is today.
Active members of the Jury may submit written questions
for witnesses to the Conductor of the Court.
The Jury will remove to a private room or area to deliberate. A Certified Fair Witness will be in attendance.
The Conductor of the Court may be called in to answer
questions, but would not attend the jury deliberations.
The Conductor of the Court may review the record of the
Certified Fair Witness and even ask objective questions
regarding the conduct of the Jury. This is a final check on
Jury misconduct.
The Jury would vote as to whether the Defendant is found
in violation of the charges against them.
77

Of, By and For the People
In Major Court, a majority of eight is required to find the
accusations made of the defendant are true.
In Minor Court, it will take four of the five votes to find
the accusations made of the defendant are true.
If the accusations are found to be true, the accused has
the duty to make restitution to the injured party and may
face a penalty as previously and narrowly determined by
the Legislature.
Excessive, cruel and unusual punishments may not be
inflicted, including maiming and physical abuse.
In all matters of dispute resolution, the objective has to be
for healing. All involved parties should be better off as a
result.
In no case will fines be levied or property seized that does
not go toward restitution. That is a court cannot charge
for its services or have a financial incentive to convict.
Clearing a False Conviction
Cases may be brought to the appropriate Court for the
purpose of clearing a conviction. In this matter, a War
rant Jury is presented evidence or testimony. This should
include evidence or testimony not known or available in
the original hearing. If the Jury determines a reasonable
case can be made that a conviction has been made in
error, Declaration for Hearing will be made to that effect.
Any Citizen may request a Rights of Citizens Guarantor
to convene a Warrant Jury for this purpose. If they
refuse, the next step is to present the information to a
78

Of, By and For the People
Local Area Government Representative who may convene
a Warrant Jury.
If it is determined the refusal was an obstruction of justice, the Rights of Citizens Guarantor is subject to
impeachment and a Warrant may issued for their arrest.
If it is determined there was foul play which resulted in a
false conviction, proper Warrants for search and seizure
and arrest will be issued. This applies to all public officials and Citizens alike.
The defending Person may be cleared of a conviction when
it is determined to have been made in error by a Major or
Minor Court, depending on which court the conviction was
made.
Minor and Major Court Jury of Citizens
Citizens will serve on a Jury for a period of 90 to 120
days. The extended time is to account for ongoing hearing
where a Juror has passed 90 days. They may be chosen
by lottery from the pool of eligible Citizens as defined by
the Legislature. All adult Citizens who are not serving in
government or military are potentially eligible.
When one has served on a Jury, they should not have to
do it again until ever other eligible person has served.
For individuals who like to serve on a Jury, the Legislature should determine an appropriate interval before they
are eligible to be in the Jury lottery.
If selected, they would take a leave of absence from their
other activities. The Legislature will specifically define
exceptions. These exception may include competency; age
79

Of, By and For the People
such as being too young or too senior to have to serve; Per
sons who have or are currently dealing with prior charges
against them; Conflict of Interest; Persons in Hospital;
and such.
Selected Jurors will be able to request to get out of duty,
but must have a very good reason. The decision will be
made by the Conductor of the Court. They will be
returned to the Jury lottery pool.
The Shape of the Major and Minor Courts.
I recommend a semicircle, where, from inside the arc, the
Conductor of the Court sits to the Jury's left, at a modest
desk. The Jury will sit in seats in a row making up the
arc.
Facing this arc, there will be two rectangular tables at a
45 degree angle to the center with a wide gap between
them.
A seat in the middle facing the Jury and Conductor of the
Court. This is where the witnesses and defendant will sit
when they are providing testimony and/or being questioned.
On the left will be the Guarantor of Rights who will
present the case and attempt to prove the charges
brought against the defendant. Injured parties will be at
the table or near it as is practical.
On the right will be the Person who is charged and is
defending and their Counsel who may also have staff
assistants.
80

Of, By and For the People
Contract Court
In this Court, both parties voluntarily solicit the Court for
dispute resolution. The elected Public Arbitrator will preside. This is like a private arbitration today except it will
not cost the parties involved to have a hearing. There is
no, jury, Guarantor of Rights or executive branch representative, but there is a Certified Fair Witness.
This certainly does not preclude private arbitration. It is
designed to provide valid dispute resolution for such
minor things as petty theft, neighbor disputes, car accidents and such. Noncriminal disputes. Disputes that are
not worth the time or cost of Minor Court.
Because Contract Court is a necessary government service provided by the Court System, the presence of the
Certified Fair Witness will make the proceeds and resultant ruling by the Public Arbitrator public.
So, if a vendor or merchant or individual takes a party to
this court for petty theft, it still goes on their public
record. The Legislature would have to set the threshold
for petty theft versus serious theft.
Please keep in mind that with all the other stuff in place,
there will not be much crime in this Society. In the case
of petty theft or minor injury, if the defendant party
refuses to appear in Contract Court, the next step is the
Minor Court process. This could be used as leverage to
get a settlement.
81


