Of, By and For the People
Global Government Court
At the Global Government level, the Court is very different. First, there is only a Major Court.
The Conductor of the Court is elected by sitting Conductors of the Court from the Local Government level. The
nominee must have served at least one full term as a Conductor of the Court at the local level. The nominees does
not have to be active, just have completed at least one full
six year term.
Three Certified Fair Witnesses must be in attendance.
Second, the parties will be representatives of the Executive Branch of a Local Area Government. It is not a criminal court. It is intended for serious dispute resolution
between Local Area Governments.
Also, it is in this court that disputes between the Global
Society and Outside parties may receive a public hearing.
These may be non Humans Being, other civilizations or
governments.
The Jury Panel will be selected from Citizens who have
served at least one term in the Global Government Legislature.
The Jury Panel will consist of twenty one Jurors and
seven Alternates.
It will take a majority vote of nineteen of the twenty one
Jurors to resolve the case.
The Conductor of the Court will be a person elected due to
having great diplomatic skills.
82

Of, By and For the People
The result is binding on the Local or Global
Government(s). It may be a useful step in a larger dispute resolution.
There has to be actual Law, Rights or Treaty Violation in
play to bring the parties to court. Else, the Global Legislature would be the proper venue for a hearing.
This is not a backdoor way to make a binding Treaty to
which the Society would be bound to. If, as a result of the
hearing a Treaty or Treaty modification is determined to
be the best solution, that Treaty would still be subject to
approval by vote of all the Citizens on the World.
For a Treaty to be brought to a Global vote, the Global
Executive and Legislature will have already signed their
approval and made their recommendation.
83

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 10
Fair Witness Branch
Thank you Robert A Heinlein. The concept of Fair Witness is presented in his book “Stranger in a Strange
Land”. This is a work of fiction set in the future. I am not
endorsing anything in that amusing read, except the concept of Fair Witness is just too good an idea. It is a fascinating concept.
This concept is very deep actually. It resolves a key problem. Right now, the alleged government has pretty much
no credibility. Governments routinely alter and erase
records. Critical information is kept “secret” from the
People all the time now. Usually to cover up crimes
against the People. This is a global phenomena. I do not
want to hear denials of that statement from existing 'government officials' except as a joke.
History has proven, over and over again, governments
cannot be trusted to keep proper records on themselves.
And when they do, those records are not properly accessible to the People. This fourth part of the governmental
structure is a check on these abuses.
The independence of the Fair Witness branch of government will provide badly needed credibility, fairness and
openness.
Individuals would be trained, tested and certified to be
impartial, non-biased witnesses. Their training and testing
84

Of, By and For the People
will be difficult to complete. They will be taught to be
honest and keen observers. Their language will be clear
and objective without assumption or subjectivity. They
will be trusted to be truthful.
The Fair Witness will be required to be fluent in all of the
languages used in government. They will become linguistic masters.
The key is these individuals must remain independent of
any outside control or leverage which could be used
against them. Sexual blackmail cannot be allowed to
remove them from office.
It will be a criminal act to influence them in any way
which could compromise them. This would be a violation
of the Rights where the victim is the whole Society. This
is the only designated group which would have such a protective status.
They would not be required to perform any other kind of
work as long as they keep their status.
Once compromised, they would lose their status.
Fair Witnesses will be the record keepers within the operations of the other three branches of government.
They will be tasked to prepare and keep meeting minutes,
and all manner of records and logs as necessary.
Their role is as observers within the other three branches
of government and this requires unrestricted access.
It is their duty to create and maintain a library of records
for all Citizens of the Society. These libraries of records
85

Of, By and For the People
must be made freely and easily accessible to all members
of Society.
Fair Witnesses are not elected and represent no one, only
the truth.
They do not have any other authority. This is not a police
role.
Fair Witnesses, including panel members will be subject
to recall in this manner:
Complaint of breach of trust or compromise may be initiated by any Citizen of the Society. The first step it to submit a complaint to the appropriate Fair Witness Panel. If
the matter is not resolved then proceeding for removal of
certification are as follows:
The First Executive at a local or global level of the executive branch may endorse a complaint against an individual Fair Witness which is determined to be valid.
A local or global House of Representatives member may
also endorse a complaint against an individual Fair Witness which they determine to be valid.
This complaint would be put to a vote by the appropriate
House of Representatives. The House may have a commit
tee which would have to vote to recommend a vote by the
whole House. With a majority vote to endorse, the com
plaint is sent to the First Executive for signature.
Only when when a Citizen complaint of breach of trust of
a Fair Witness is approved by a majority vote of the
House and signed by the First Executive, could a Fair
Witness be stripped of their status.
86

Of, By and For the People
To clarify, the Citizen Complaint, and the Executive and
Legislative endorsement of that Complaint must occur
within the same local tier governing area where the
alleged violation occurred.
In the case of Citizen Complaint where the alleged violation occurred while in service within the Global tier of
government, the Endorsement of the Global First Executive and Global House of Representative is required.
This is essential because it is just too easy otherwise for a
Fair Witness to lose their status for political reasons.
Otherwise, a Certified Fair Witness retains that office for
their natural life unless they resign or retire.
In keeping with the requirement for openness, training
materials, criteria and even the training itself must be
open to public inspection.
As to whether they would have the same access to the
military is an open question. It does not seem desirable
or practical. But it is impossible to foresee everything.
Maybe there is a role there, maybe not. I propose waiting
for several years before exploring the possibility of a Certified Fair Witness having a role in the Military.
Are they always on duty, like a priest or is there a way to
designate on and off duty, for instance so they can socialize, vacation and such?
Obviously this group would have to be sober in to perform
their duty. Being intoxicated on alcohol, opiates, or similar natural and synthetic substances would be a problem.
87

Of, By and For the People
If they are always 'on duty' then over time, they may
become too apart from the rest of society. As their role is
strict, how about on duty all the time except during vacation time? Would their off time be 30 days a year or more
to be fair to them?
Over time, it may evolve that this branch of government
is used in non-government organizations. At this time, I
would caution against that, but that discussion is outside
of the present scope.
I propose the following tiered rank structure within the
Fair Witness branch of government:
1)
Trainee
Qualified persons who are accepted into the program who
are going through their training phase. This phase will be
complete when they have passed all required course work
and testing. I would expect it would take at least three
years, maybe up to seven years to complete as this is a
highly demanding role.
Graduates of the Fair Witness educational program will
be announced in a public ceremony.
2)
Apprentice
Apprentices have completed their schooling, have passed
their testing and are assigned to a Certified Fair Witness
for a period of time to gain real world experience. At this
time they are not ready for independent assignment.
The duration of this phase and criteria to be met will set
by the Senior Fair Witness Panel.
88

Of, By and For the People
The Mentor they are assigned to will report to the appropriate panel when the Apprentice is ready for Certification.
Fair Witnesses who complete their apprenticeship and
receive Certification will be announced in a public ceremony.
3)
Certified Fair Witness (CFW)
A CFW will have full rights and privileges to assume
their role with the trust and confidence of the People. The
may be assigned to independent duty. They will have all
the appropriate access to the Executive, Courts and Legislative branches of government.
There must be some form of badge or symbol or article of
attire so that their presence is openly known. The Global
Fair Witness Panel has authority to determine this as
well as dress or uniform standards.
Maybe a robe, a jumpsuit or a sash? It would not be
appropriate to the role for these symbols or attire to be too
loud or flashy. They will have such trust and their service
to Society so highly respected, they can afford to be mod
est in their display.
4)
Senior Certified Fair Witness (SCFW)
This group would be eligible to serve on Fair Witness panels.
They do not lose their status as Certified Fair Witness.
However, they would be relieved of CFW duty except as
needs require to temporarily fill a position pending
89

Of, By and For the People
assignment by a CFW.
A CFW would be eligible to apply for this level after a
specified number of years of service. Once accepted they
would receive further education as appropriate for this
management role.
As this branch of government are the Librarians who
keep and disseminate records. It is not in their role to
restrict access to information. Someone has to manage
the libraries, and People who perform day to day tasks.
The day to day tasks can be performed by Citizens.
It may be necessary and practical for a CFW to have the
assistance of support staff. This staff role would, of
course be merit based, but be performed by Citizens. It is
logical that some of the Citizens who work within the Fair
Witness branch would want to apply to be a Trainee. But
it could not be a requirement to serve on staff before
applying for Trainee.
All staff would be hired and managed by SCFW. The
CFW role is too demanding for any other duties or managerial responsibilities.
Fair Witness Panels
I propose a two tiered panel system in keeping consistent
with the two tiered governmental system. These panels
would oversee the administration of the branch for each
Local Area Government and Global Government. They
would have full authority to de-certify, reprimand or
order additional training of the CFWs serving within
their jurisdiction.
90

Of, By and For the People
Global Fair Witness Panel:
There would be one panel of nine Senior Certified Fair
Witnesses
This panel would consist of nine members to be responsible for the overall administration of this branch of government for the whole world. This panel would set of criteria, training, testing, performance reviews, etc.
Members would serve staggered nine year terms.
Elections for three panel members at a time would be held
at three year intervals.
Only Senior Certified Fair Witnesses are eligible to vote
for Global Fair Witness Panel member.
The object of this rule is to prevent the politicization of
this branch of government. The SCFW would be the most
informed voters. This is also consistent with Society values in that they are electing their own leaders.
The Global Fair Witness panel would vote to select a
leader each three year cycle, after the new members have
been em paneled. The same person could potential hold
this leadership position for a maximum of nine years.
Panel members may serve for a maximum of 12 years.
This could happen for instance in the case of unexpected
vacancies. When stepping down from this august body,
they will still be Senior Certified Fair Witnesses.
Eligible candidates will have completed at least one term
on a Local Fair Witness Panel to qualify for nomination.
91

Of, By and For the People
Local Fair Witness Panel:
Each local government will have one Local Fair Witness
Panel similar in structure to the Global Fair Witness
Panel.
These panels would also consist of nine members. They
are responsible for the overall administration of this
branch of government for each local government. This
panel would implement criteria, training, testing, performance reviews, etc. as determined by the Global Fair Witness Panel.
Members would serve staggered nine year terms.
Elections for three panel members at a time would be held
at three year intervals.
Only Senior Certified Fair Witnesses and Certified Fair
Witnesses assigned to the Local Government for at least
one year would be eligible to vote for Local Fair Witness
Panel members.
It would not be allowed to assigned CFW or SCFW for less
than two years at time to any Local Government. This
will provide stability and prevent relocation for the purpose or perception of skewing a Local Fair Witness Panel
election.
All SCFW assigned to the Local Government are eligible
to be nominated.
A CFW assigned to the Local Government may be nominated after completing a minimum of three years of service as a CFW. If elected to a Local Fair Witness Panel, a
CFW would be immediately promoted to Senior Certified
92

Of, By and For the People
Fair Witness.
Language of Government
This is a big, big issue. It is included in this chapter
because it will be in the nature of the Fair Witness to be
linguistic masters.
I am definitely not a linguist. Most of you on this world
have greater language skills than I do. I am OK with
that, feel a bit stupid and inferior, but hey, I accept it.
Yes, I can write – in English. Obviously, that is not going
to cut it for a global solution to the language barrier problem.
There are basically only three options.
1) We all learn a large number of languages and every
document has multiple translations side by side.
This would fail outright as it is too difficult and impractical as there will always be translation issues to dispute.
However, for at least a generation, we would have to have
everything translated in the major spoken languages just
to communicate. To that end, I will try to get this book
translated that way.
2) The linguistic experts among us would study all the
known languages and scientifically develop a new one.
3) The Korean People already did this. The Koreans are
the only people in all of recorded history to accomplish
this incredibly difficult feat. The government tasked their
finest scholars to study the known languages and scientifically develop the Hangul alphabet and the language we
93

Of, By and For the People
know as Korean. Not only did they accomplish this task,
the government actually managed to implement it. Never
been done before. Wow.
There have been spoken languages for which an alphabet
or writing system was created, but that is very different
and not even close in level of achievement.
Not only that, since Koreans tend to be scholarly, their
technologically advanced modern society has people who
have studied every major language in Human civilization
on this world.
The solution is relatively simple. We as a People recognize their contribution to Humans Being on this world
and adopt Korean as our universal language. Let them
teach everyone, including myself.
For those of you who are shocked at this, think about just
how difficult any other solution would be. Then realize a
solution already exists. That is how I came to terms with
it.
The benefit this would have to our Society is absolutely
enormous.
Another practical reason to do this is it is nonpolitical.
No other existing language is as good and they all have
tremendous political and cultural baggage. So not only is
it an excellent solution, it is politically viable.
One potential beneficial result of adopting the only modern language on Earth is this: It may help to heal the horrible divide that exists in Korea.
94

Of, By and For the People
I do not speak, read or write Korean, but I am willing to
learn for the benefit of all Humans Being on this world. I
have heard it spoken quite a lot. Even in my own home.
It is relatively pleasant. Some languages sound like
someone is hocking a lugie, no offense, but we all know
that.
I have to provide a disclaimer: I was married to a Korean.
If anything this makes me biased against adopting this
language. But, I have to be objective and let my mind
over rule my emotions. I am thinking that we all do
(except of course the Koreans).
95

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 11
Initial Setup of Government
I have given this a great deal of thought. Some of my
ideas are not ready to present at the time of this writing.
Others will make more sense as the old system continues
to collapse. But more importantly, public discussion is
required. I would like for this to be the subject of a subsequent book.
If I am still around, I could be of some assistance. Some
of what is presented here is deeper than an initial read
may reveal. Let these concepts sink in first.
The truth is still as stated earlier, by focusing our collective intent upon this objective goal, this future will manifest into being. Without that, our species is pretty much
over. Just everyone realizing how we create the future
though intent will more than justify this book.
Initially people would have to be selected to fill all the
roles. Though it will take years for all the proper training
and institutions to be fully and properly implemented.
Some people among us are very talented at seeing a per
son's best aptitude and potential. They are very good at
matching the best person to the given roles.
Beware that during this time of initial setup will be the
most dangerous. The high level blueprint laid out in this
96

Of, By and For the People
book may be referred to again and again until things are
running smoothly. The end does not justify the means.
I think what is most likely to happen is a community will
be formed, away from existing cities. This governmental
model will be implemented. Then it may be duplicated on
a global scale.
Implementation for this proposed plan is not some pie in
the sky dream floating in through the clouds. It is our
last chance before we as a species are extinct on this
world. Our home is a battleground for possession. Our
best chance is to liberate our living Mother from all comers who will not share and nurture her. We cannot claim
ownership of her ourselves. We are caretakers of our precious home world. I am fully aware that our world and
all the worlds are living, conscious beings. Awesome
beings with great power. Our Society will respect Her
and She will heal and nurture us.
I cannot stress this enough, collectively, through our free
will via Intent, this reality can be, will be manifest. We
do not have to destroy the old order. We just have to no
longer honor it and give it our power. In order to do that,
my analysis of our species is, we have to have a positive
image to focus our intent upon. I recommend focusing on
the Rights and structures presented in this book.
97

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 12
Economy
Well, this is the big issue isn't it? What is the ideal economic structure for the new Society. Just about every
thing and every type of system exists or has existed.
What was good? What was bad?
I can already feel you clutching onto your hardened
beliefs. You know you must be right. You are sure of it.
Are you? Really? Give it up. What is your answer that
you know so well to be the only correct way?
But how can that be? I am hearing so very many different answers from so many different People who are so
sure they know the only way. It is like a row of different
churches. Each one is believing they are the only ones
who will go to Heaven. Everyone else is going the bad
places. And none are living for the here and now. Hmm.
How does that work?
There is nothing I can write that will please more than a
few and turn off or anger the rest. Why is that? Because
of attachment, mostly, and just a wee bit of manipulation.
There is a quote attributed to Abraham Lincoln “You can
fool some of the people all the time and you can fool all
the people some of the time, but you cannot fool all the
people all the time.” Let us prove him correct, please.
98

Of, By and For the People
Look, I do not have a crystal ball. Saw one in Seoul I
really want though. I am not channeling from some all
knowing master. I am just a guy as intimidated by this as
anyone else would be. Except for debt slavery, which we
all can agree is unacceptable and the reptilian banking
system which undermines entire nations for fun and
profit, there is not much in common.
There is no point going into an emotional diatribe against
socialism or communism or capitalism or a gift economy
or barter. Because in every system you can find People
who are genuinely trying to arrive at a solution. A little
mutual respect is in order here.
As long as we have our Rights and genuine representative
government Of the People, By the People and For the People does it really matter what form of economic system is
in place? Um, yes, it matters very much.
One of the wealthiest and most powerful servants of the
Vatican was Mayer Amschel Rothschild (1744 – 1812).
The Godfather of the Rothschild Banking Cartel is quoted
as saying: “Give me control of a nation's money and I care
not who makes the laws.”
And again with Baron Nathan Mayer Rothschild (1777 –
1836) He was a City of London financier, one of the major
players for the international Rothschild banking dynasty.
He is quoted as saying: “I care not what puppet is placed
on the throne of England to rule the Empire, … The man
that controls Britain's money supply controls the British
Empire. And I control the money supply.”
99

Of, By and For the People
These guys apparently really knew what they were talking about. So first and foremost, only a legitimate representative government Of, By and For the People may be
allowed to control the currency in our Society.
“The Creature from Jekyll Island” by G. Edward Griffin
will help explain how the banking system came to be the
way it is. Thanks also to quotes.libertytree.ca. The late
Eustace Clarence Mullins, Jr. wrote “The Secrets of the
Federal Reserve” and other works which are very relevant
to this subject. I actually had the honor of hearing him
speak at a Citizens for Legitimate Government meeting in
Minneapolis.
I strongly recommend the documentary “The Secret of
Oz”. My take away from that award winning documentary is that a nation may print fiat currency without debt
or interest.
As long as new currency created each year does not
exceed the growth in the economy, the currency will not
experience inflation. Some consider this growth to be
measured in Gross National Product but that is a flawed
metric in my opinion, more to it than that. As long as too
much currency is not removed from circulation, there will
not be economic collapse or recession and depression.
Proper management of the currency supply should result
in a stabilized economy. The boom and bust cycles we
have today are manufactured scientifically by the banking
cabal based in the City, in London largely through manipulation of the money supply.
100

Of, By and For the People
This is a break from Gold or other commodity backed currency. The problem with commodity backed currency is
someone already owns or controls all the potential commodities which could be used to back a currency. So it
would be the same game as we have now which is gross
inequality and a tiered class structure. That is just more
of the same, unacceptable.
There is a concept that money or currency itself is the
problem and a system should be developed to eliminate it
all together. This may be quite valid and should be studied further. Maybe, in the future, we can do away with
money altogether. I recommend that all the systems out
lined in this book be put in place first. Then when there
is stability, the People may study the problem further and
consider getting rid of currency as a relic of the past, if
that is determined to be the best course of action.
For now though, it would be nearly impossible to pull that
off. Some of you just laughed because you consider this
whole plan impossible to pull off. Well, the joke is on you
then, because if this plan is not implemented, or some
thing very close like it, you and all that you know will die
as well as our entire species. The Trans-Humanist
Agenda is very real and has to be destroyed. This plan
can do that.
Let me take a moment to impart the seriousness of the
situation we are in. Our world is effectively quarantined.
We are isolated. If help was going to come, it would have
been here by now. We are on our own, cut off. The bad
guys are winning. There is simply no more time. It is up
101

Of, By and For the People
to us, trapped here on this world to take matters into our
own hands and implement this plan. I have studied for
many years. I know too much about the dangers we face.
But there are scant few documents which outline real
paths to our own social liberation as a People.
One of the options for a decentralized currency that has
wide appeal is Bitcoin. It may be viable but for one
thing, quantum computing and artificial intelligence. Bit
Coin can help us transition, but ultimately it is a temporary solution due to its inherent vulnerability. Its main
flaw is the way new Bitcoins are mined or created and
the difficulty of protecting the primary transaction severs
from hack by the spook community serving the Empire of
the City.
Know that artificial intelligence and/or actual consciousness combined with quantum computing is exceedingly
powerful. As long as Bitcoin or any currency is digital
and connected to these powerful systems, whether by
Internet or electromagnetic waves, it is completely vulnerable and cannot be secure.
Our society will create and issue one standard currency
for the entire world. Protecting Bitcoin and any new
currency is a matter of Global Security.
Everyone I have discussed this issue with is locked into a
false paradigm regarding money, commerce and economic
systems. The problem is we live with a pathetically high
artificial cost of living. Now, I know for a fact that we can
burn salt water when exposed to a radio frequency generator transmitting at a resonant frequency of the element
102

Of, By and For the People
Gold or Au. I also know that there are proven, simple,
low cost methods to generate electricity from the air,
lakes, rivers and wave motion on the coastlines. Then
there is just plain separating water into hydrogen and
oxygen at 15,000 cycles per second, producing more
energy than can be used in a car for instance. There is
more I could tell you, much more, but is outside the scope
of this book.
Imagine you can run your car on tap water with relatively
minor modifications. It has already been accomplished.
Imagine what impact air travel, ocean shipping and
trucking with minimal fuel costs will have on cost of living? What if your home used geothermal as is perfected
in Norway? What if buildings were built for passive
energy efficiency, minimal maintenance and made to last
for centuries? How much lower would our cost of living
be? Now add the fact of no tax on labor or services rendered? No interest payment on a loan only a one time
fee? No more compound interest on loans of any kind, like
on your dream home?
This could be our reality. The criminal cabal that plays
global secret government today tries so hard to keep We
the People ignorant of the truth. Their game is total
abject subjugation, manipulation and control. Our game
is liberation and freedom. Let the light shine in us all.
The other problem is the constant pounding out that there
are too many people and not enough food or resources. I
am here to tell those who do not already know, this is a
lie. Plain and simple, a big lie!
103

Of, By and For the People
The entire population of this world can fit in a nation the
size of Texas. Most all of the use of this world's precious
resources is wasted after a single use. Thrown out, buried
in landfills or dumped into the sea or burned. Most of the
energy and resources go to creating massive military
machines and spying on and enslaving we the People. If
that energy and effort went toward ensuring everyone's
basic needs are met, we would all live like kings and
queens with resources to spare and not even damage our
precious home world.
Just a simple example, amazing and sometimes wonderful
products can be manufactured from crude oil. A dirty, relatively expensive and more importantly, limited resource.
Millions of People already know that everything made
from crude oil can be made from just one of the five basic
products of the hemp plant. But because hemp resin is a
more complex and nontoxic substance, more stuff can be
made from it.
Stuff like biodegradable plastics or
methanol which burns clean in a standard combustion
engine with a change to carburation settings and some
gaskets. And it grows in all geographical areas of the
world without herbicides, pesticides or fertilizer. It is
also a renewable resource. Unlike using food crops like
corn to produce methanol, using hemp or cannabis does
not keep the grain of that crop from the food supply and it
would reduce the cost of that food, not increase it like it
does with corn.
The cannabis plant produces fiber, fuels, medicine, paper
products, building materials, and is the only plant on
Earth whose grain is a complete protein for us Humans
104

Of, By and For the People
Being. Now do you see why it is so suppressed world
wide? It is also the least toxic substance known to our
species, the best soil stabilization medium (its roots are
hemp fiber). Since we got to this point of failure in our
civilization by malevolent mind control techniques, it is
good to know that consumption of the flower of the female
plant is the best antidote to mind control by outside
forces.
Are things looking a little less scarce and hungry now? I
have not even begun to address this. This is just one of
very many solutions which can be implemented with a
Legitimate government Of, By and For the People at little
or no cost in a matter of months, not decades. While even
cleaner solutions are developed and implemented.
What about the high cost of your meds or your expensive
cancer treatment? It is all fraud upon fraud. Why do you
think cannabis for medicinal use is grudgingly allowed?
Because the criminal cabal knows full well they cannot
hide the fact it is the best known medicine, cancer treatment and nervous system protector on the world and
they impose massive taxes on its use.
But they still do not want you to know that without even
trying, burning hemp instead of coal reduces costs and
emission by 90%. That is an immediate short term solution and can be implemented while cleaner energy sources
are produced. The Grid is killing us and other life we
share this world with. It needs to be destroyed, so do not
go thinking in the old way. Remember, millions of independent, unconnected power sources are the way to go.
105

Of, By and For the People
The truth about the medical industry is there are many
suppressed, mostly simple cures, of all known disease.
And these are caused by malnutrition, air pollution, radiation poisoning, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizer runoff,
chem-trails, wheat, electromagnetic radiation, synthetic
drugs from big-pharma and other completely artificial,
unnatural causes which will be stopped.
Let the brilliant healers among us work without the
restrictions that are placed on them today. In every other
industry costs go down and quality goes up as new technology is developed. Old healing technology still exists
from Chinese and Native American medicine much of
which have not been improved upon.
It it the criminal governments that artificially drive up
the cost of healing, after it makes us sick. This is not natural. Doctor Royal Raymond Rife, the Tesla of the medical industry, was sued and bankrupted by the American
Medical Association. After inventing his frequency generator, he proceeded to cure all known diseases. The reasoning of the AMA was that they would not have the control and profit they wanted. See, once diagnosed, all a
patient had to do was be exposed to the Rife Generator for
15 minutes and day, a few times a week, along with other
doctor recommendations like drinking water, rest, and
such.
How many of you know about this? Well this is a pretty
informed audience or you would not be reading this book.
But still, it is suppressed information. Many millions
have suffered and died untimely deaths from diseases
106

Of, By and For the People
which had been cured since the 1930's have they not?
That is just one of many such technological developments
in the medical industry which are suppressed which I am
aware of. What about all the stuff I have not even heard
or read of? Gotta be a lot of that.
There is a lot more I could tell you, but it is outside the
scope of this book. Point being dramatically reducing the
cost of living and lack of scarcity.
Anyone can have cleanly produced electricity for basically
the cost of installation of a system in every home, craft
and building.
Oh, it gets better, implementing clean, independent
energy technology results not just in a much higher standard of living, true location independence, almost free
travel and all, but it creates massive economic stimulation.
The problem is, the coal industry will have limited use.
The logging industry will only be used for wood, the
nuclear industry would be shut down completely, etc.
Basically, it will mean massive transition.
Not to worry. In our Society with debt free, interest free
currency creation, every Person will receive a steady
income from the legitimate representative government.
If you did not have an electric bill, or fuel costs, no income
tax, no interest on your new home, no property tax, no
death taxation, dramatically reduced cost for better medical care, but you rarely got sick, how much money would
you need to meet your basic needs?
107

Of, By and For the People
I am not going to spout a number without detailed
research, but I am sure it would be less than a tenth of
what is needed or desired today. There is more, if you
have a stipend from the government for the rest of your
life, when you work or run a small shop or studio, you do
not have to get paid very much because it is above your
cost of living. It is all extra. This further reduces the cost
of living.
Today, if you want to do something with your life, but it
takes time, years maybe, that is quite difficult or practically impossible. With this system you will be able to.
Most of the jobs today are a total waste or harmful to society or for the big war and death machine or are cleaning
up the messes that will mostly stop being made or are
unnecessary or no longer necessary government jobs. Add
improvements in efficiency and automation. I suspect
that we can achieve a situation where every adult member of our Society only has to be assigned work just 15% of
the time. Would you be willing for every adult to receive a
paycheck for life and only have to work 15% of the time?
What I mean is a normal work week, but required work
assigned only three years out of twenty, after you turn 20,
for instance. These are the basic infrastructure jobs.
This frees up the government to only have to deal with
major medical emergencies. As suppressed cures are
made available and most of the causes of what makes people sick in the first place are eliminated (cause they are
criminal) the government does not have to be very big and
yet it can pay for the major and emergency medical costs
108

Of, By and For the People
for every citizen at a tiny fraction of the cost today.
I am proposing all basic infrastructure be socialized, that
is not for profit and managed by the people who use the
services. That is the 15% of the available workforce who
would rotate though these jobs during a specified age
range in their lives.
Under these circumstances, an organization may reduce
their cost of operations to a fraction of what it is today in
terms of payroll. You could make $5 and hour, and it
would be the same effect of making $50 an hour. Look at a
typical paycheck today in any modern country, don't for
get the extra taxes the employer has to take out of your
pay that does not even show up on your paycheck. Up to
50% or more is taxes. That would be eliminated because
tax on labor or services is involuntary servitude otherwise
known as slavery. Everything your business needs would
cost less too.
There will be no more stock exchanges or financial investment companies as we know them now. Banks will be
simple banks providing basic services. Their staff will be
paid like everyone else. There will be no more interest
bearing loans or portfolios. Currency will be used solely
for a medium of exchange until money itself is no longer
even necessary.
Accumulation of currency will simply not be allowed. A
cap will be set on a maximum amount of savings. What
that cap is, I cannot say. But it has to happen. The maxi
mum wealth of any individual cannot exceed a specified
ratio from the minimum wealth of any individual. Excessive earning would be distributed into the system to raise
the lowest level of wealth, in order to raise the highest.
Gambling will still exist, but on a much smaller scale and
borrowing will not be allowed for betting.
With one currency, no ownership of land or other natural
resources, a cap on accumulation of wealth, it will not be
so easy to hide ill gotten gains.
Are you with me on this? Let the government cover infra
structure and basic needs for all, pay a stipend to every
one to meet their basic needs and not have millions of government employees, no debt or interest on debt.
Now, this will not stop people from wanting to provide
arts, services, make stuff, build stuff, etc. When a corporation or even a nonprofit organization is created today,
it is a legal fiction by definition. The rules are set by the
legislature.
The idea of a corporation existing for the sole purpose of
making money for the shareholders is outright criminal
and against the best interest of all of the People. This will
not be allowed.
Organizational structures can be well defined and chartered.
Unbridled, unregulated organizations become
detrimental to us all. Too much regulation stemming
from laws is not a good answer. The solution is in the
limited definition of the chartered organization and its
rules of operation. These structures are defined by a representative legislature.
Rules for businesses and other chartered organizations:
110

Of, By and For the People
Profits will be capped at specific amounts or percentages,
excesses would be paid back to the public treasury. Pricing would be adjusted to re-balance the equation.
The defined organization structure would provide for
every employee to vote for representation on the Board of
Directors. And vote directly for who fills management
roles at various levels of organization structure.
Today, the powers that want to be, want you to think only
unions of workers who can extort more money from the
owner class is the answer. This is total crap. First, there
will not be an owner class anymore. Second, a properly
structured organization will not have division between
management and worker. Third, the members of an organization will have real power to ensure fairness in pay,
safe working conditions, merit based promotion and
totally open books.
After costs and pay, profits will be distributed to each
functional member of the organization by formula. These
rules will be set by the representative legislature. That
way everyone has a vested interest in the success of their
work.
The ratio between the lowest paid job and the highest
paid job will be set by the legislature for everyone and
every business. I am suggesting it absolutely not exceed a
7 to 1 ratio. That if the janitor makes 5 currency units,
then the senior most manager could not make more than
35 units of currency, for example. What that ratio is
needs to be discussed and set by the People. Then applied
to all equally. What we have now is winner take all,
111

Of, By and For the People
screw everyone else. This is no longer going to be allowed.
The object is general equality. Keep in mind that senior
pay position may be available to everyone. It would be
merit and skill based. It may take many years to earn
such a role. But if even this results in social injustice, it
can and will be addressed again, and again as needed.
This object is to provide incentives for encouragement and
motivation. This only works if the higher paying roles are
potentially achievable by anyone if they apply themselves.
All natural resources, such as minerals and fresh water
are owned by the entire global community. I am with the
native Peoples of America and tribes throughout this
world. They believed it not just ridiculous, but an
unthinkable violation of our Mother Earth to own land or
air or water. Today in many places, if you collect rain
water, that is a crime. Why? Because the octopus of 140
private corporations controlled by the people who call
themselves the Elite or Illuminati, the Illumined Ones,
have contracts of ownership of almost all the water rights
on this world.
Fabulous monopolies have been artificially created by the
same interbred and inbred families over and over by
using military force to seize mineral resources and the
like.
International Commercial Court law is to be abolished. I
am talking about the complete abolition of all existing
contracts. All of them. Every corporation, every Title and
Deed. Every Treaty. Every Stock and Bond. Every city
charter. Most are made through fraud and deceit for the
112

Of, By and For the People
purpose of enslaving all of us. The powers they were created under will no longer exist. You, like me, will no
longer recognize these fictions. None are legitimate any
more. Their day has passed. It has ended in abject failure. Resistance of the collective will of the People is
futile. We stick to our Rights of the People, they cling to
their draconian ways, unto their deaths. We are billions,
they are thousands.
A process of transition needs to be established to restructure existing organizations as determined by law. Models
will be created. Proposals based on these structural templates could be approved by the Legislature and implemented by the Executive branch.
If the chartered organization provides a basic service
using natural resources, those resources are owned collectively by all the People. Not the local People or the Local
Area Government, Not the Global Government either.
That would be bad and an incredibly corrupting influence.
The Local Government Area are entrusted as caretakers
of the natural resources, not owners them.
That puts the power in the hands of the People. Organizations which mine copper, for instance, would be chartered by the Local Area Government under authority of
the People. Remember, all chartered organizations are a
legal fiction, a creation of the state so to speak. That
means their structure is defined. These structures are
open to public input and debate. All charters may be
made renewable that is have a sunset clause.
113

Of, By and For the People
The basic concepts outlined here for the principles of our
new economy combined with the governmental structures
are realistic and would work in practice. It is up to the
People through their representatives to work out the
details.
114

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 13
Social Institutions
When there is a social need to be met, do not think of a
governmental solution first. It should be a last resort
when nothing else works. I suggest the establishment of
independent Social Institutions. A public educational system is such and institution. How it is designed and operated is very important. It may be funded by currency creation. It has to be chartered by representative government, but needs to operate autonomously.
I propose the creation of centers of healing using the same
structural rules.
Port Facilities, Transportation Hubs, Public Stadiums,
Other Sports and Arts Facilities and similar organizations may be created. These provide public services and
are social institutions which can and should exist outside
of the direct administration of the executive branch of
government. The People, through their representative
government would define clear parameters for such social
institutions.
In each case, I recommend a balance of power in the man
aging board between the People who fill the roles and the
People served. Generally a ratio of 40% of the elected
members of the governing board be elected by the People
who work in that organization and 60% elected by the
People served by that organization.
115

Of, By and For the People
One basic distinction between a Social Institution and say
an organization which produces widgets is the cost to the
People. Social Institutions should not have a fee for their
use, but would be part of the socialized financial structure
and funded by money creation.
Organizations that produce goods or services which have
a fee for acquisition or use would be chartered organizations, but once setup, would be funded by the revenue
stream from the “sale” of their goods or service.
Another basic distinction is whether it is a vital basic
need or public service, such as a healing center or transportation facility or not. A skateboard is not a vital need
for every member of society, but a want for some.
In the case of protecting a child and intervention in a family unit a social institution is much desired over government intervention. This is discussed earlier. I suggest
that for every 20,000 or so People within a community, a
small council of elders be assembled. These groups would
be looked to for guidance and wisdom. They would create
a safe haven for children who are in danger. They may
have other social roles as well. The intent is for the healing of all parties concerned. This is to avoid a court situation or involvement of police. When that happens, the
social institutions have failed or the problem is just too
big.
Does this make sense? This is a new paradigm, a different pattern to take in. I do not want to elaborate too
much. This seed of thought needs to take root and grow
first. Just give it some thought.
116

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 14
Food Production
The basis of any living system for us Humans Being is
clean food, water, air and soil.
In today's world, the soil of the fields are poisoned, the
water and air are poisoned and after all that, the food is
poisoned with chemical additives. But beyond all the
physical chemical toxins created by the millions of kilo
grams and distributed world wide, is the spiritual poison
of factory farms. In addition to all these crimes against
humanity, diseased animals are fed to us. But even all
these atrocities do not compare to Genetically Modified
Organisms created and the passed off as food. This is a
total act of war. GMO as food is a multi-generational
genetic toxin designed to modify our DNA, dumb us down
and also kill our species. This is not accidental, it is
planned decades in advance and implemented with full
intent. There is no excuse or accident involved.
This will have to stop. Completely. All use of synthetic
chemical herbicides, pesticides and even most fertilizer
must be banned immediately. All GMO crops need to be
burned and the factories which create them destroyed.
For those of you who are still only exposed to the lies, look
it up. Everyone needs to watch “Genetic Roulette – The
Gamble of Our Lives”. There are some very excellent
sources of real information on the subject of GMO.
117

Of, By and For the People
The living conditions of farm animals in some factory
farms and slaughtering factories are an abomination to
life. There is no excuse. These facilities must be
destroyed and the practice stopped completely. There is
no other way. The karmic stain on our species for these
crimes is enormous. We are being poisoned spiritually. It
is not enough to stop eating the meat products from these
sickening places. This affects our entire species. Myself
included, everyone. Hundreds of millions, maybe billions
of cattle, chickens, turkeys, hogs and who knows how
many more types of animals are bred, grown and slaughtered in conditions which result in a cry for justice and a
black stain on our collective souls. I recommend “Slaughterhouse” by Gail A. Eisnitz for a primer.
Massive scale mono-cropping has to end altogether. The
problems inherent in this process are too many to go into
within the scope of this book. Point is, it is not a method
which results in a stable or safe system of food production. Even if it were done organically.
Only heirloom crops will be used in our Society. There is
nothing new to learn. Masters of how to do it the right
way abound around this world.
Large scale corporate farms act as another tentacle of the
octopus to meet out death and our own destruction.
Organic farmers will not have to deal with arrest for providing whole, unpasteurized milk for instance.
The Codex Alimentarius is an act of war against all
Humans Being. This will not be allowed anymore.
118

Of, By and For the People
Best practices will be advanced. Shared information and
technology will teach People who work the land to raise
food. All farmers and gardeners will have access to courses and other sources of information and products which
will end these atrocities before it is too late for our
species.
The existing stocks of the toxic chemicals, GMO seeds,
most hybrids and poison crops will be destroyed. The
scale of raising farm animals will change to a healthy
manageable level. This goes for aquatic farming of too.
There will be no more dumping of raw sewage into rivers
and oceans.
Our new representative governing bodies will have the
authority to apportion the use of land for agriculture and
other forms of farming. These will be treated as shared
resources much like mineral or water resources. By eliminating the negatives, the known good methods will flourish. Farmers will not have to fear bankruptcy and be able
to focus on their nurturing relationship with the land. I
believe enough People will have the desire to be close to
the Earth and want to live and work on farms. Proper
incentives will also be put in place as necessary.
There will be many and large scale indoor farming facilities as well.
Agriculture, aquaculture and animal management technologies, tools and infrastructure will be developed and
implemented in harmony with the natural order and
shared freely.
119

Of, By and For the People
The technology exists to turn sand deserts into lush,
green vegetation. Weather modification technology can be
used to provide proper rainfall in dry areas of the world.
Popper management of ocean resources will allow their
restoration and cleanup to levels known two hundred
years ago.
Known and often suppressed solutions exist to dramatically improve the quality, quantity and cost of food production on a global scale. These can be made available
and implemented.
No matter what improvements in technology are made,
the underlying theme necessary is respect for life.
120

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 15
Technology Development
This chapter is to address one of the more glaring errors
of the current messed up situation of the Human civilization on this world. The way new technology is developed
and implemented or not in the current era is about as
fraudulent and against the best interest of the People as
it can be.
In our new yet to be name Society, new development will
not be done in secret. There will be open exchange of
research data. Financial gain past a modest point will be
eliminated as a source of greed motivation. The People
who do invent usually do not get credit for it or any financial gain much of the time anyway. But if the technology
is good, like clean, cheap ways to access the energy in our
environment, the inventor is often murdered and their
work stolen, their labs destroyed.
I know first hand of a company in Saint Paul, Minnesota
which developed technology to dramatically improve
mileage and corresponding reduction in polluting emissions in existing gasoline engines. They offered modification to standard cars and trucks. The lead inventor was
simply murdered. The survivors were “told” they could
continue but were not allowed to exceed 70 miles per gallon. Basically they were given limits on efficiency or be
killed. The was done with impunity. The state authorities were apparently powerless to do anything about it or
be killed themselves.
There are hundreds of stories like this.
This is an act of treason against all life on this world.
This is not just a crime, but a very high crime deserving
severe punishment. I am not supporting execution, but
whatever our Society decides is the greatest punishment
which is not cruel and unusual, that shall be applied.
There is nothing I hate more than suppression of beneficial technology. It is just the way I am. I want peace but
this crime is worthy of war.
Money and resources wasted on competing duplicate
research and the billions spent by criminal corporate
enterprises and illegitimate government to suppress technology is responsible for our impoverished state and much
of the rape of this world. If you think you are not impoverished by this you are unaware just how badly you have
been damaged.
Medical technology has no excuse to be suppressed. Teleportation, time travel, energy devices, world colonization, terra-forming of worlds, the whole secret space program. How much
do you lean in school about this?
Is it because you are too stupid to be told? Not likely. Is
it because you would be so shocked you would die? Not
likely either. Is it because some sick pieces of shit think
they are gods and we are just dirty slaves? Ding! Ding!
Ding! That is correct. What did you win? Access to real
science and knowledge of the universe and ourselves.
122

Of, By and For the People
Every thought, every act you have made in your lifetime
is and has been monitored. The human brain is a bio
computer. We have been hacked. The white hats who are
behind some of the disclosures made by Mr. Snowden
have only told us what I and many others have known or
suspected since our youth. And it is only the tip of the
giant iceberg. Typically, only 10% of an iceberg is above
the waterline.
The malevolent beings behind this technological spying
need technology to do this. Any Human has the inherent
ability to see almost everything about anybody just
through seeing their aura. Our brains are transmitters
and receivers. Even I with limited psychic abilities can
read minds if I have to. Millions of People on the world
are far ahead of me.
Every act, every thought is recorded in the Akash as we
spin though space/time. This is essentially the underlying
fabric of space/time. We and others can see events from
the past by viewing what is called the Akashic Record. I
am completely convinced of this and have a crude under
standing of how it works. Don't fret too much with all the
spying, just live your life and act to generate the energies
you wish to anyway. The bigger problem is the many
ways technology is used against us.
Do not think of technology as just material applied science. There is technology of the mind too. I believe this is
the key to our protection and especially communication.
Mental applied science is very real and can be taught and
learned like any other science.
123

Of, By and For the People
We have been given a most amazing gift by our Creator.
We can create with our mind. Imagination is far more
powerful than has been given credit. The main reason
these technologies are suppressed or simply not taught
has to do with the level of spiritual advancement of an
individual. By actualizing the Rights of the People in
each of our lives, I believe, that level of spiritual advancement is achieved.
This will open the door for all manner of advances in
physical and mental technology development and implementation. It is true that with great power comes great
responsibility. That is the course we are on.
124

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 16
Military
Our society cannot avoid the fact it needs a military force.
I served a tour in the US Navy back in the early 1980's. I
know many people who have served in one branch or
another. Some from other countries as well. I did not,
could not, have really known what I getting into. But,
with some luck, good fortune and good shipmates, I made
it through and got an Honorable Discharge. Jokes
abound for these silly terms.
It takes courage to sign up and put ones life on the line to
defend their country and such. It takes inner strength to
follow orders.
The leadership was mostly excellent
though.
My job was Yeoman. Worked in Ship's Office. Dealt
mostly with officers. Got to see the ship and the Navy
from an administrative perspective. Got to learn some
thing about organizational structure. A ship is very much
a self contained community.
For some, there is apprehension and misunderstanding
about the whole military thing. The military is and
should be separate from civil government. Most people
who serve their country's military are idealistic, dedicated, hard working, adventurous people. At least when
they first go in. The rank and file is representative of the
125

Of, By and For the People
nation as a whole. If there is any hope of restoring a Constitutional Republic, it will come from veterans and active
duty men and women. But I would hope to have made my
point and they join the new Society instead.
The top brass is a different story. It becomes more political, that is less merit based, past a certain point. At least
it seems to be that way.
I only mention my background because those who have
been in the military are more likely to consider opinion
and recommendation regarding military structure from
someone with relevant experience.
I admire the brave men who refused the draft during the
illegal Vietnam War. But I do not feel the opposite for
those who joined willingly. Hey, nobody knows what they
are getting into when they join. Sometimes, in youth, people do what they are told and ask questions later. They
may get some seriously messed up answers to those questions, but there is a certain amount of humility in that
behavior.
Veterans for Peace really know what is going on. Society
at large needs to listen to what these brave people have to
say.
In the model community I am presenting with this book, a
military structure would look like this:
An All Volunteer Force
This is for two reasons. First you get the best people for
the job, who are ready, willing and able. Second, it is just
wrong to force someone to serve in the military. Encourage and suggest yes, force or compel, no.
Single Order of Rank
I really think it important to break from the two tiered
model. For the most part, privilege, family connections
and even wealth play too much of a role in whether a per
son goes in as an officer or enlisted. Experience has
shown that a separate 'Class' of officers are much more
likely to send the enlisted ranks to their deaths without
the considerations and planning they would make for
themselves. This is reflected in many aspects.
The best military will be based more on merit and respect
from their peers for seniority. There are many roles,
requiring many different talents and skill sets. Matching
raw talent and skill to the most appropriate role is the
best way to maximize training and effectiveness. This
would also provide greater incentive to study and be more
professional in their role.
It would also be a more accurate reflection of society. Our
society would not allow dual classes.
One Branch of the Military
This is not as crazy as it might first seem. There is a
tremendous amount of waste, redundancy and inter-service competition and conflict. The Army has a fleet of
ships and aircraft. The Navy has more aircraft than the
Air Force. The Marine corps only exists as a separate
Army for the Navy for political reasons.
Not every use of force is a war. If our Society is unwilling
to use force when necessary to defend itself it simply will
127

Of, By and For the People
not and cannot exist at all or for very long. Readiness and
fast reaction has probably prevented wars from happening over the centuries. The People would need to define
rules governing authority for a limited response to an
immediate threat before an elected body can meet to
review the situation.
It will be much easier to control a single military than
several.
There will still be the various specializations and types of
service within this organization. The costs and administrative overhead will be a fraction of what they would be
with multiple, competing branches.
Improved communications and weapons security, use of
cross purpose technology, sharing of research and development, etc. It all leads to a more efficient, effective and
survivable force.
Simplified Rank Structure.
Any military has to have a rank structure to be able to
operate. I see three basic factors. One, is the primary
role or job specification. Two, seniority within that role.
Three, coordination and management across specialization.
Like any job, there is teaching and training which takes
time and usually has to be learned with increasing levels
of difficulty. A person has to learn and master the entry
level stuff before they are ready to acquire the next, usu
ally more complex level of knowledge and skill, etc.
128

Of, By and For the People
No mater how much a person learns, in a group, there
will be a gradient of skill levels. This is true in many
aspects of civilization. Leadership is a skill and you want
to select the best leaders.
I propose 12 levels of Rank or Seniority. Basically six
Tiers, each with two Ranks.
Tier 1 Ranks 1 & 2:
All new members going through various stages of training
and early years of experience. Similar to the first four
enlisted ranks of today.
Tier 2 Rank 3 & 4:
Mid level leadership, perform their roles well. Similar to
enlisted ranks 5 and 6 of today.
Tier 3 Rank 5 & 6:
Senior leadership, accomplished experts in their roles.
Similar to senior enlisted ranks of Staff Sargent and
above (army) / Chief and above (navy) and Warrant Officers.
Tier 4 Rank 7 & 8:
Senior leadership across specialized roles. Similar to, but
more advanced than junior officer ranks today, in level of
responsibility.
Tier 5 Rank 9 & 10:
High level leadership in strategic roles. Similar to commanders, army Colonels, navy Captains. High levels of
responsibility.
129

Of, By and For the People
Tier 6 Ranks 11 & 12:
Top levels. Similar to Admirals / Generals today.
Representative Leadership
The military would define its own organizational unit
structures, roles and responsibilities.
Each functioning unit would vote to select its leader from
the its ranks within each organization unit level.
Promotion would be merit based with clearly defined
expectations.
The idea of groupings of two is they would have similar
roles, but the two levels would reflect accomplishment
and seniority within those roles.
The numbers of People within the Tiers would drop significantly with very few in Tier 6.
Secrecy
The military has a legitimate need for communications
and operational security. The attack on New York and the
bombs that killed 39 of 40 Naval Intelligence Officers who
were investigating massive fraud of three trillion dollars
unaccounted for could not have happened without compartmentalization of Secrecy. Essentially an entirely separate and parallel chain of command was created.
This extreme high treason happened partially due to
structural gaping holes in compartmentalized secrecy.
There were not proper checks or oversight even within the
Pentagon which would have prevented the attacks on the
eleventh of September, 2001.
130

Of, By and For the People
This issue is not that simple. It is a fine line between too
many people knowing an operational plan and not enough
qualified military personnel being informed. However,
what goes on today with secrecy is treason against the
People of Earth plain and simple. I am convinced that
most use of secrecy in the military and government today
is to hide crimes against the People.
It is clear that the security system failed long before that
day. Inexcusable abject failure in fact. How can this be
prevented from ever happening in the future, an attack on
our own Society from a criminal element within the military? And subsequent cover-up?
A serious open debate needs to take place in order to
define rules for the military in our Society. Rules which
would be more effective from a security standpoint and
from a checks and balances standpoint. Individuals in
our Society who have skills and relevant experience need
to weigh in and be heard.
It is my understanding from listening to whistle blower
testimony that there are other issues as well. Such as a
ridiculous amount of redundancy to the tune of billions or
even trillions of dollar in waste just from concurrent
duplicate secret projects where information is not shared.
In the former united States, true civilian government
oversight and ultimately control simply did not exist.
Presidents, Senators even members of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff had been routinely denied access to locations and
information. How is that? This sort of treason cannot be
allowed in our Society.
131

Of, By and For the People
Today, secrecy is used to suppress technology to the determent of the People. This technology is rightfully owned
by the People. Energy, medical, materials, bio-engineering and nano-technology which could be put to good use
and are not. To me, this is nothing short of High Treason
against all the Humans Being on the world. It is even
worse in that select individuals do have access to these
technologies. What we have now is a tier 1 science which
is secret and a tier 2 science which is known to be false or
limited, taught in the colleges and universities.
What this did was create a completely separate civilization which is essentially at war with the vast majority of
the People. They are trying to create a total Master /
Slave society with nothing in between. The sociopaths
want to play god over everyone else.
One suggestion I will make is if anyone in the military
refuses proper access or to provide proper information to
civilian government authority be arrested and charged
with treason or whatever is appropriate. If found to be a
valid charge, they could be demoted to the lowest rank,
kicked out of the military and then face whatever the People through the proper legislation, deem. But, as taught
to me by a Navy Chief who I served under, there are
always two sides to every story. That is why there must
be public hearings and courts. Accused and convicted
individuals still have Rights which must be respected.
One argument for military personnel refusing to answer
to a person in the role of proper civilian authority is they
may know that the individual is a traitor or loyal to a foreign power. In the present circumstance, this has often
been the case. That does not by itself account for the
incredibly criminal system that exists today.
The model I am proposing can help to prevent this from
happening again. However, input is needed by people
well versed in these issues who can make good recommendations that may be implemented.
Individuals who report criminal or questionable acts by
members of the military to the civilian government need
to be protected.
The need to know thing has just gotten out of control.
There is not only Need to Know, but Right to Know and
Duty to Inform.
And finally, have fewer levels of secrecy with oversight
structures in place at each level.
If this matter is not properly resolved, what happened
already could happen again, even our new Society. Do
Not Allow That To Happen.
Military Intelligence
This will be the only governmental intelligence organization. It will be responsible for all manner of intelligence
collection and analysis relative to the defense of our Society and the world. It is primarily about information collection and analysis, not operational roles which are to be
conducted by other military personnel.
It will provide briefs and consultation to the Executive
and Legislative branches of civilian government.
133

Of, By and For the People
Its primary role is to aid in planning and execution of military operations.
Its duties include anticipation of risk and threat from all
civilizations other than ours and our space environment.
This role includes asteroid tracking to avoid collision.
Track all objects orbiting the world and any other world
where we have operations or civilian communities. This
includes tracking of objects which may collide with the
world and need to be diverted or destroyed.
It will have authority to monitor communications and
movements of other civilizations for threat analysis.
It is not to be allowed to monitor or spy on our civilian
government or citizens. They may assist law enforcement
as per legislation.
Civilian Control
The top leadership position would be selected from within
the 12th rank, by the First Executive and approved by the
Global Senate. The office would be reappointed every
three years. It could be the same person if appropriate.
The Global First Executive and Senate will have authority to remove from office any member of the military for
cause.
The Global Legislature may designate military service
awards and medals and set objective criteria for their
achievement. The Global First Executive may assign
awards and medals by decree. The Senate and House of
Representatives may assign awards and medals by majority vote.
134

Of, By and For the People
Military pay and budget is subject to approval of the
Global First Executive after passing the Global Senate
and House of Representatives on an annual, bi-annual or tri-annual basis.
Any member of the military would have to resign or retire
from the military before they could hold any office in the
civilian government.
There would be no separate legal code for the military.
Members would have the same rights to a trial by jury as
a civilian. Jury and Judges should not be active military
as this would potentially be a conflict of interest. But it
may be good if they are former military for a better under
stand of the situation. This may not always be practical
in the field, but the intent of impartiality must be maintained.
Military Duty and Responsibility
The duty of the military in this Society is to defend and
protect the People and their Rights from all enemies both
within and outside our Society.
The military and civilian governments will never be
allowed authority to initiate a war of aggression.
Efforts will be made to provide the finest, state of the art,
defensive armor, weaponry and craft. High technology
defensive and offensive capability is important, but low
technology is just as important to keep and maintain.
Any and all new and old technologies must be evaluated
for their potential application to military use or threat.
135

Of, By and For the People
Strategic centers, resources, facilities, bases and population centers need to be protected and defended at all
times.
Inter-dimensional beings, nano-technology
weapons including sentient black goo and some forms of
artificial intelligence are potentially our greatest threat.
Strategies must be developed to counter every conceivable
threat.
This Society is for Humans Being and we share this
world and outer space with many other civilizations of
Non-Humans Being. Some are very powerful. There will
also be a period of assimilation of Peoples of Earth with
many outside our yet to be named Society. During our
formative years, we will need military protection from old
order forces who may be bent on our destruction.
The military shall not be burdened with actions better
suited to civilians or civilian government.
Promotion and demotion is part of the military's manage
rial duty.
The military will advise law enforcement, but will not
make arrests or be law enforcement. If, in some circumstance the criminal organization is essentially an army
itself, then it would be appropriate for a First Executive
to request Military intervention. This needs to be closely
debated and when a decision is made, done under public
scrutiny.
Force Structure
Military recruitment should be balanced across all local
area governments.
136

Of, By and For the People
Objective guidelines for testing, training, rank, specialization and force structure will be drawn up by military staff
and submitted to the Global Legislature for approval by
majority vote. The Global First Executive will sign or
veto these guidelines.
Armories and bases of operation will be kept and maintained strategically across all governed areas. Stocks of
weapons, armor, Earth bound and space bound vessels
and craft will be kept and maintained. Operational forces
will be fully staffed. Nonoperational equipment will be
maintained in a state of readiness to be fully staffed in
time of need or war.
The military will be structured to have a minimal active
duty force in time of peace, with the ability to call to
active duty veterans who would assume their previous
rank and role in time of need. Preparation time for up-to-date training will likely be needed before assuming full
responsibilities of previous rank.
History has demonstrated, that a large standing military
has great potential for abuse of the Rights of the People.
But a large population of trained veterans is also the best
defense. It would be appropriate for a large proportion of
young men and women serve a short three year term of
service. These will become the base of veterans who may
return to service in time of need or war while new recruitment is scaled up.
All service is voluntary. A unit may refuse an order, even
in wartime. This will be minimized by units electing their
own leaders. In practice, a refusal of orders would likely
137

Of, By and For the People
only happen when the majority or all of a unit is sure it is
a bad order. The issue of no confidence in their leader is
resolved by the units electing their leaders.
Prisoners of War
All military and civilian prisoners captured in war or
defensive conflict will be the responsibility of the civilian
government.
Prisoners will be introduced to our Rights and culture.
Their basic needs will be met.
They will be held captive for as short a time as possible
and in as humane conditions as is reasonable.
Their culture and technology will be studied for anything
useful we might want to do or use ourselves.
There will be an opportunity for them to be assimilated if
appropriate.
Closure
All wars need to end.
Military forces will specifically target strategic and tactical targets. By minimizing casualties, which means death
& injury, the prospects for eventual victory and peace will
be increased.
The civilian government is required to come up with contingency plans for a peace settlement.
No such plan may include the removal of our Rights for
any reason.
Better to fight and die free than to be enslaved again.
138

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 17
Educational System
As a high school dropout, some might suggest that I
should not be the one to deal with this issue. They would
be right, except I have seen the educational system from a
different perspective and have insights those within the
system do not have. I also have not been broken by the
system and have no vested interest in maintaining it the
way it is now.
First, start completely over from scratch. A proper examination of the best examples from different cultures and
educational system would be a good move.
Second, today's education system is primarily designed to
stunt the mental growth of the student. A great deal of
time, money and energy has been spent figuring out how
to sever a child from their natural mental talents. It is all
about creating artificial limits and trying to force those
limits onto the student. I suggest reading “Magical Child”
by Joseph Chilton Pearce to gain insight in the natural
unfolding of a child's natural abilities and intelligence.
Third, the system today is designed not only to force the
student to accept limitation but to break them to accept
authoritarian rule. The goal seems to be the creation of
good little robot slaves who will work for the ruling class
and not ask questions. If you have a problem with the
truth I am clearly pointing out, well, you are either guilty
139

Of, By and For the People
of letting the system beak you, and/or, you are guilt of creating and implementing the system. Deal with it.
I want to lay out a few suggestions for the sake of discussion. Problems I have had probably affect whole groups of
People.
I propose the creation of single, but large educational service institution within each Local Area Government. A
central core campus with small satellite branches to meet
the needs of Society. This will provide for many parallel
educational institutions which would compete for performance. Best practices will develop and be shared.
The key is the people who use those services and parents
of children who use this service have a vote for representation on the governing board. The Governing Board
would consist of 60% / 40% representation. 60% of the
seats elected by the People who use the service. 40% of
the seats elected by the teachers and staff of the organization itself. Elections would be held on a standard three
year election cycle.
I see three aspects of education which should be treated
separately. The first is education itself, reading, writing,
arithmetic and such. The second is extracurricular activities such as sports, drama, various clubs and such. The
third is socialization of children growing up with others in
their age group.
I found it incredibly difficult and unproductive to learning
to spend a brief time on one subject, bell rings (screw your
bell Pavlov), switch to another subject, deal with it just a
little, bell rings, do that again with another subject. Do it
140

Of, By and For the People
again next year. That does not work for me.
I have taken several professional courses. These were
most excellent. I was taught much more effectively when
immersed in a particular course for a day or days at a
time. That is work days, not 24 hour days. The lesson
plans were awesome. The next piece of information
seemed to anticipate my next question.
Everyone has a body clock. Some cultures recognize that
we get burned out in the mid afternoon. I always had to
fight falling asleep, even if it was my favorite class, in the
mid afternoon time. These human cycles need to be
accounted for.
Proper nutrition and a balance of mental and physical
activity and break time will provide the student optimal
learning ability. Without these much time is wasted in a
child and adult student's attempt to learn and the
teacher's attempt to teach.
I found that what helped me adapt and thrive in the military the most was my experience in school sports pro
grams. The coaches I had in my youth taught valuable
lessons that went far beyond playing or competing.
It is the extracurricular programs that teach culture,
social and practical skills. The teachers who run such
programs are like coaches. The benefits not only help
throughout one's life, but can lead to careers and professional achievements. This may be especially true of the
arts.
141

Of, By and For the People
What if an educational institution had centers of learning
for each subject. One that students of all ages would
attend. The course level would be based on merit not age.
A student might have a higher level of learning accomplishment in some subjects versus other subjects. Criteria
could still be set for achievement in various subjects.
To make this work, each student would have a counselor
to advise and guide them through the process over the
years. These counselors would have to have some degree
of independence within the system to be more effective.
They would work with the student and their parents or
guardian.
Sports programs are age or size dependent for fairness
and more fun. But they could be conducted parallel to the
courses which are not.
Other extracurricular activities would totally depend on
the program. Some might want students at a similar age,
others might not. But these could also be parallel to the
course work part of education.
Teachers need to have much more independence to teach
as they deem best for their students. This business of
teaching to a standardized test is not real teaching. Standardized textbooks cannot be forced upon a teacher for
optimum performance.
Standardized textbooks tend to be politically motivated
and become some truth mixed with lies, some truths with
held, etc. Let those who are the teachers control their lesson plans. Time will tell and improvements can be made
based on best practices like any progressive industry.
142

Of, By and For the People
Teaching should use methods appropriate to differing student aptitudes. People are different. Some are more visual, some are more audio or tactile. A good coach plays to
the strength of their team. A good teacher can teach to
optimal learning ability of their student.
You know how it is often said we only use 10% of our
brain? Or that we only use a limited amount of our potential intelligence? There is much more to learn and to
develop which Humans Being are capable of. I have
delved into the mind and human consciousness a bit. Our
educational system has to go far beyond what exists today
if it is to teach to our real capability. We are not meat
sacks or just physical. We are immortal mental and spiritual beings and our physical body is temporal.
The has been much effort by social engineering planning
institutions like the Tavistock Institute to dumb us down
to a pathetic level. They have placed professors in college
who try to con their students to believe their limited five
sense reality is all there is. That the chemicals in our
mind and body control us when our mind and spirit control our physical body. They push the “this world is all
there is'” philosophy. This insidious institution has been
our enemy since its beginning. Look where it is based in
the heart of the Empire of the City. Look that up.
The truth is very often the opposite to what is taught in
colleges and universities today. This is by design. This
will not be allowed in our educational institutions. I want
to see the natural unfolding and development of our children and ourselves, not enslavement.
143

Of, By and For the People
In the US at least, teachers are not really promoted or
retained based on merit. Administrator get paid vastly
disproportional to the actual teachers doing the real work.
That is not in the best interest of society. The issue of
unions is dealt with elsewhere in this book. It certainly
appears to me that the teacher's union has had a very
destructive effect on the quality of education in society. If
you want an example, compare private schools to unionized public schools.
Much of the pathetic restriction of what it is to be Human
is taught and promoted in the name of religion. Stupid
religious groups attack the development of knowledge.
Here is an example I need to tell. As a person who has
had psychic and spiritual experiences throughout my life,
and especially in my childhood and youth, I know from
personal experience many things which the brain dead
zombies in much of the world would want to kill me for
even mentioning.
Modern day psychiatry not only fails to grasp the significance of left and right brained aspects to our personality
and awareness, they classify all psychic and spiritual
experiences as other than what they are. They define
aspects of human behavior as mental illness which need
psychotropic drugs to treat. They add more to their self
serving list every year! There may be some merit to their
work, but the greater part is antithetical to what it is to
be Human.
Tuesday Lobsang Rampa was who he said he was. That
is incomprehensible to most all formally educated people.
144

Of, By and For the People
But not to me. Not just because I recognized and rejected
formal education for what it is, but because I can relate to
much of his teaching from personal experience. In “The
Third Eye”, he tells of growing up in Lhasa, Tibet, before
the Communist Chinese invaded and destroyed that spiritually advanced nation.
His teacher would take the young students to the roof of
their building, high in the mountains, where they would
lay down to sleep. But instead of sleeping, they would
leave their physical bodies and form up as a class in their
astral bodies, some would call this lucid dreaming. The
Lama, their teacher would hold class this way. He took
the children to different nations and cities around the
Earth to teach geography. They saw all the major cities of
the world and the people. Sometimes he took them to
outer space to learn about the solar system. Sometimes to
other worlds orbiting distant stars, with civilizations to
observe them.
I have experienced lucid dreams countless times. There
are classes you can take, even right here in America
where anyone can learn to do this. Check out the Monroe
Institute or the Project Camelot interview with Doc
Barham. I can tell you this stuff is real. But either you
already know it or you may have a mental block against
it. Yet, all this is considered mental illness by Psychiatrists! It is considered evil or whatever by many religious
idiots as well.
Carlos Castenenda is also considered a fraud or his work
pure fiction. But while his work may have been fictionalized, the Toltec teaching in them are very real. I know
because of my own experience and subjective reality.
I can tell you, I would have been dead a long time ago if
this were not the case. I have saved my life a few times
with this knowledge. There is no rational explanation for
how I am still in my physical body if you knew what I
have been though and experienced, at least by the limited
paradigm of reality taught in school and most churches.
This is not really religion or a belief system. It is just a
normal part of Human nature. There are many areas of
knowledge which you can prove to yourself but cannot
objectively prove to others. There are inherent dangers
involved in the exploration of our natural consciousness,
but that is all the more reason to have good teachers.
Our educational system need to dramatically expand its
limited boundaries and clean out the lies and false teachings. If you search for the source of some of the lies
taught in schools and colleges today, you will find they are
unfounded or have been insidiously implanted by subversive organizations. If you dig deeper, you will find the
ones who made it their mission to spread the lies know
the real truth.
Education needs to be open and free to people of all ages,
all the time. There is so much to learn and our time in
this world is so short. In order to “make it” in today's rate
of new development in virtually all areas of expertise, continuing education is necessary.
In our global community, knowledge would be shared.
Best practices are more valuable and advance faster with
146

Of, By and For the People
a wider pool of input.
The economics of education today is somewhat pathetic at
many levels. That issue is society wide and is dealt with
in another chapter.
In this scenario, teachers, coaches and those running the
other extracurricular programs would be honored with
the high degree of respect they deserve.
This business of children lugging backpacks full of books
like pack animals has to stop.
One of the ways the united States fell into tyranny is the
dumbing down of the school system and suppression of
and restriction of access to knowledge.
But, it is my contention that even worse is the fact that
the school structure has been authoritarian in nature
from the students perspective. It seems it was all about
breaking the spirit of the student in order to get them to
accept an authoritarian work environment. This made it
easier for authoritarian government and policies to occur.
This is completely, totally wrong six ways to Sunday. I
am so glad I quit when I did.
If a young man or woman goes through the system and
does not see the need to defy an authoritarian system,
then they become a broken shell of what they could have
been.
Therefore, the schools in this new Society will teach freedom and personal responsibility. It will impart the values
of a free and free thinking society in order to perpetuate
those values.
147

Of, By and For the People
Homework? Homework!!! If you got me for the whole day,
do not expect me to take it home and do more. Balance in
life, especially between school or work and home life is
essentially to quality of life.
In fairness, looking back, I did have some good teachers
and went mostly to private Catholic school. But they
were like spies that slipped through the cracks. They had
to work within the system that existed in the hopes the
values they taught would survive. They planted the seed
of thought, and it did grow. I am sure a few would
approve of my overall message and passion. Some were
true visionaries who wanted to cause change and create
the sort of Society I am writing about in this book.
I guess if you approve of the message in this book, you
have to think kindly on at least some of the teachers that
produced me. I thank Sister Marybeth, from 3 rd grade,
you were the best! I will never forget that day. She
taught her class, she loved her children, that we knew the
basics. She taught us that now that we knew how to read,
how to write and basic arithmetic, if we never had
another day of formal schooling, we knew enough now.
That if we apply ourselves and these basic skills, we could
learn anything. She taught us how to think properly and
to ask questions.
One day, as a child, I was walking by the Convent and
met her. I was pretty sad. I had been thinking about life,
and what that meant for my future and how things were
just going to keep on the way they were. She stopped to
talk to me. She asked me why the sadness. “Cause when
148

Of, By and For the People
I grow up, I guess I'm just going to be a scientist and work
for some big corporation like DuPont or Dow.”
She paused, looked me in the eye and said “It doesn't have
to be that way, if that is not what you want.” It might not
seem like much, but she gave me real hope that day. It
was the first time the realization began that we can
change our future.
Some of you might think, hey that's not such a bad gig to
look forward to. It was more than that, it was thinking
things would never change that got to me. This was also
in the context of the Vietnam War going on. And on.
I remember geography class. Looking at Southeast Asia.
I was learning about Vietnam. I told my teacher, wow,
what a beautiful country, I really want to go and visit
there. She gave me a quizzical look. I knew there was
something she wanted to tell me but couldn't.
My sadness is nothing, even my hopes and fears are nothing when compared to the children of my generation in
Vietnam. It is too late to say “Make sure that does not
happen again.” I has happened again, over and over now.
This rule by criminal cabal and global tyranny has to end.
You who teach, the values you impart are a big part of a
child's life. Sometimes you have more influence than a
child's parents who trust you to teach their children well.
Teach the right values. You do make a difference, one
way or another.
Look for the innovators, the free thinking teachers to
teach the next generation. Like what happened to me,
149

Of, By and For the People
only this time the innovators won't have one hand tied
behind their back and have to work within a restrictive
institution.
150

Of, By and For the People
Chapter 18
My Vision for Humans Being
I envision that we, as a species and a soul group will unite
and form a new Society which is in harmony with the natural order.
Healing technology which can preserve our lives in a
healthy state for centuries, leading to near physical
immortality will be available to all.
Clean energy technology will enable us to live almost any
where and promote real wealth and wealth equality.
Transportation technology which closes distances on the
worlds where we live and between them will be available
to everyone and little to no cost.
Anti-Gravity will be perfected to the point of holding up
movable cities.
Mental and Spiritual Technology will surpass physical
technology.
Humans Being will achieve ascendancy to a higher vibrational frequency have powers which enable true freedom
from oppression, subjugation and control by malevolent
and parasitic beings.
That Cosmic Consciousness / Samadhi will be achieved by
all who turn away from service to self and serve others.
151

Of, By and For the People
That Humans Being will take our rightful place among
interstellar civilizations and become guides and teachers
to others throughout the Galaxies in the ocean of space.
Here is something I penned on the eve of my 18th birth
day. It originally used the word His, but I really wanted a
gender neutral word. Changed it to Her because the creative force seems to be feminine. It is included here
because is it a description of a vision I had of all the works
and constructs of our species separate from all else, seen
over a vast time, condensed to a moment.
=======================
Searching Through Her Endless Expressions
The Machine lay
You could see through It's complexity
It was old, rusty, torn & fixed
Always It moved, forward into time
About Its base, beings, creatures of the machine moved
There were inside also, to every place and function, others
like those below
And it seemed time sped up
Faster It moved, and lo, great change was taking place
inside
And there were ever from below more beings entering as
those inside mysteriously left
Always there were more to come underneath
152

Of, By and For the People
As the Machine moved, a trail It had, tracing back to
where the edges of infinity never seemed to stop
Before It, It created a path
And a wake It made, like to a ripple of waves as a pebble
descends through an endless sea
It grew again presently, slowly at first, but then with the
pride of a false grandeur
It learned
A Machine it seemed but with life, the life of those to the
least from which It was made
It had but seemed to grow
It only changed
And at any given moment It was still
The lines of Its future were made by Its past
And it seemed, also, that It was dissolved into the space It
traversed
There were those inside which wrought change
Forging strong healthy ideas, welding with their love,
smoothing with their peace
Creating a magnificent image which thirst only for knowledge of God
And within the core of every being was light, and around
that light darkness
Always, to see toward the light there was light
Always, to see toward the darkness there was darkness
153

Of, By and For the People
And there were those inside which grew fear and bred
hate
And these did create a foul image
With malice it destroyed
With ignorance it prospered
Yet its design was equally intricate
And where the two met, they entwined
And the Machine was a reflection of Its creators, alone
and as one
Yet poised within the ocean of space, It was always melting, dripping endlessly into the void
And rhythm could be heard, sound felt
Vibration within vibration, holding all the pebbles, all the
sea, together in harmony
Accord did blend with discord
And all the sea, and all the seas did become but an
expression of Her
The elusive, all pervading...
by
Angelo Patrick Arteman
aka Gerry Carton
154


